of the Pacific Northwest. Designed by Randy Flynn, for 1-4 players, ages 10+.
The Pacific Northwest, also referred to as Cascadia , is a geographic region in
western North America bounded by the Pacific Ocean to the west and by the Rocky
Mountains to the east. Though no official boundary exists, the most common conception
includes the Canadian province of British Columbia and Yukon Territory as well as the U.S.
states of Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.
In Cascadia, players compete to create the most diverse Pacific Northwest
environment as they draft Habitat Tiles and Wildlife Tokens to construct
combinations of scoring objectives linked to each of the five wildlife species.
While arranging wildlife into point scoring patterns, players will also be
competing to create the largest contiguous habitat corridors. As players
build out their environments they must pay careful attention to the
habitats they create and the wildlife they populate, with the goal of
creating the most harmonious ecosystem in Cascadia.
adventurers and have spent time hiking, cycling, paddling, and
exploring in this great region! We were inspired by the great beauty
of the habitats and the wildlife of this wonderful area and are excited
and your family and friends! We hope it will inspire you to explore
wild places wherever you may be, or consider paying Cascadia a visit!
The Pacific Northwest, also referred to as Cascadia , is a geographic region in
western North America bounded by the Pacific Ocean to the west and by the Rocky
Mountains to the east. Though no official boundary exists, the most common conception
includes the Canadian province of British Columbia and Yukon Territory as well as the U.S.
states of Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.
85 Habitat Tiles including 25 Keystone Tiles
In Cascadia, players compete to create the most diverse Pacific Northwest
environment as they draft Habitat Tiles and Wildlife Tokens to construct
combinations of scoring objectives linked to each of the five wildlife species.
While arranging wildlife into point scoring patterns, players will also be
competing to create the largest contiguous habitat corridors. As players
build out their environments they must pay careful attention to the
habitats they create and the wildlife they populate, with the goal of
creating the most harmonious ecosystem in Cascadia.
adventurers and have spent time hiking, cycling, paddling, and
exploring in this great region! We were inspired by the great beauty
of the habitats and the wildlife of this wonderful area and are excited
and your family and friends! We hope it will inspire you to explore
wild places wherever you may be, or consider paying Cascadia a visit!
(4 Bear, 4 Elk, 4 Salmon, 4 Hawk, 4 Fox,
Place all Wildlife Tokens in the Cloth Bag and shuffle/shake them well.
Using the chart below, determine how many Habitat Tiles you need, based on the number of players.
Randomly select these tiles. Do not look at the tiles you include or exclude. For solo mode setup, please
Shuffle these tiles and stack them face down within easy reach of all players.
Randomly select 1 Wildlife Scoring Card for each of the five wildlife, then place those five cards in the
center of the play area within easy view of all players. Put the other Wildlife Scoring Cards back in the
with A in the bottom right corner).
Randomly distribute one Starter Habitat Tile to each player, placing it face-up in front of them. Place the
Reveal 4 Habitat Tiles from the face-down stacks and place them face-up in the center of the play area
within easy reach of all players.
Draw 4 Wildlife Tokens from the Cloth Bag and pair them, in order, with each of the 4 Habitat Tiles to
form 4 combinations of 1 tile and 1 token.
Place the Nature Tokens within easy reach of all players.
Beginning with the starting player and proceeding clockwise around the table, players will take turns drafting
On each turn, a player will select a Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token combination and play them into their
environment. (Note: An environment is the full arrangement of tiles and tokens in front of each player that includes
their Starter Habitat Tile). At the end of each players turn, both the Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token selected will
be replaced with new ones from the Habitat Tile stacks and Cloth Bag, respectively.
Beginning with the starting player and proceeding clockwise around the table, players will take turns drafting
On each turn, a player will select a Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token combination and play them into their
environment. (Note: An environment is the full arrangement of tiles and tokens in front of each player that includes
their Starter Habitat Tile). At the end of each players turn, both the Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token selected will
be replaced with new ones from the Habitat Tile stacks and Cloth Bag, respectively.
Select a Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token
If 3 of the available Wildlife Tokens are the same, then
the active player may choose to wipe these tokens.
Overpopulation: 3 of the same Wildlife Token
At the beginning of each turn there will be four
Habitat Tiles and four Wildlife Tokens in the
center of the play area. The Habitat Tiles and
Wildlife Tokens will be arranged in four distinct
combinations, each with one Habitat Tile and one
Wildlife Tokenproviding four choices.
Before you make a selection, check to see if any of
the wildlife are overpopulated:
If all 4 of the available Wildlife Tokens are the same,
Overpopulation: 4 of the same Wildlife Token
Automatically wipe Wildlife Tokens
Take all 4 tokens and place them aside. Then, one-
at-a-time, draw 4 new tokens from the Cloth Bag
and pair each one, in order, with a Habitat Tile.
(Note: this could happen multiple times on any given
Active player may choose to wipe the 3 Wildlife Tokens
Take only those 3 tokens and place them aside. Then,
one-at-a-time, draw 3 new tokens from the Cloth Bag
and pair each one, in order, with a Habitat Tile. .
Once all overpopulations have been resolved, place
any wiped tokens back into the Cloth Bag.
You will now select one Habitat Tile + Wildlife Token
combination. Typically, you must take an existing
combination. However, before you do, you may
optionally spend a Nature Token to do one of the
1. Take ANY one of the four Habitat Tiles and ANY one
2. Wipe ANY number of Wildlife Tokens and replace
them. (See overpopulation rules on this page for
The spent Nature Token is placed back into the supply.
There is no limit to the number of Nature Tokens
you may spend on your turn. If you do not have any
remaining Nature Tokens, you must take an existing
Place the Tile and Token into Your
The Wildlife Token may be placed onto
a single Habitat Tile according to the following
Once you have selected your Habitat Tile and
Wildlife Token, you will place them into your
The Habitat Tile must be placed into your
environment according to the following placement
A. The Habitat Tile must be placed adjacent to any
Habitat Tile already in your environment, that is, the
Habitat Tile must touch at least one side of another
previously placed tile, or the Starter Habitat Tile.
B. The Habitat Tile may not be placed on top of
another Habitat Tile nor can any other Habitat Tile
(Note: Matching terrain is not a placement rule but
There are 2 possible Habitat Tiles where this fox could be placed
A. The Habitat Tile must not already have a Wildlife
(Note: this means you will only ever have, at most, one
Wildlife Token per Habitat Tile).
B. The Habitat Tile must show the matching wildlife
If you cannot legally place the Wildlife Token because
no open Habitat Tile can support that wildlife, or if you
choose not to place the Wildlife Token, return the token
You may place the Wildlife Token onto the Habitat Tile
you just selected on your current turn, or you may place
it onto any other available Habitat Tile.
If you place your Wildlife Token onto a Keystone Tile,
After you have placed the tile and token you selected,
replace each one in the center of the play area. The
Habitat Tile is replaced from the top of any face-down
stack. The Wildlife Token is replaced by randomly
selecting one from the Cloth Bag.
Note: when replacing tiles and tokens in the play area,
do not move the existing tiles and tokens. Simply refill
Your turn is now complete. Play passes clockwise to the
largest habitat corridor in each of the habitat types. If
tied, 1 bonus point each. No bonus points for second
largest habitat corridor in each of the habitat types. 1
point bonus for the second largest. If two players tie for
largest, 2 points each, no points for next largest. If three
or four players tie for largest, 1 point each, no points for
next largest. Any ties for second largest, 0 points each.
Each Habitat Tile has one or two types of terrain and one, two, or three options for Wildlife Tokens.
On your turn, before you select a tile
and token, you may spend a Nature
Token to do one of the following:
1. Take ANY one of the four Habitat
Tiles and ANY one of the four Wildlife
2. Wipe any number of Wildlife Tokens
There is no limit to the number of Nature
Tokens you may spend on your turn.
Tokens you still have are worth 1 point.
If, at the end of any players turn, there are no face-down
Habitat Tiles left in the stacks to replace the one taken,
Record scores on the Scorepad for the following:
3. Habitat Tile Corridor Majorities
For each player, score each Wildlife based on the Wildlife
For each player, score 1 point per Habitat Tile in their
largest contiguous habitat corridor in each of the 5 habitats .
Tiles are included in a contiguous habitat corridor if they
(Record these points in the top left section of the
corresponding box on the Scorepad for the habitat and
If you had a group of 3 Forests and a group of 4 Forests,
you would gain 4 points because 4 is your largest Forest
3. Habitat Tile Corridor Majorities
According to player count, score bonus points for having
the LARGEST contiguous habitat corridor for each of
the 5 habitat types. (Use the numbers recorded on the
Scorepad from step 2 to determine who gains bonus
points. Record bonus points in the bottom right corner of
the corresponding box for the habitat type and player in
On your turn, before you select a tile
and token, you may spend a Nature
Token to do one of the following:
1. Take ANY one of the four Habitat
Tiles and ANY one of the four Wildlife
2. Wipe any number of Wildlife Tokens
There is no limit to the number of Nature
Tokens you may spend on your turn.
Tokens you still have are worth 1 point.
Tiles are included in a contiguous habitat corridor if they
(Record these points in the top left section of the
corresponding box on the Scorepad for the habitat and
If you had a group of 3 Forests and a group of 4 Forests,
you would gain 4 points because 4 is your largest Forest
3. Habitat Tile Corridor Majorities
According to player count, score bonus points for having
the LARGEST contiguous habitat corridor for each of
the 5 habitat types. (Use the numbers recorded on the
Scorepad from step 2 to determine who gains bonus
points. Record bonus points in the bottom right corner of
the corresponding box for the habitat type and player in
largest habitat corridor in each of the habitat types. If
tied, 1 bonus point each. No bonus points for second
largest habitat corridor in each of the habitat types. 1
point bonus for the second largest. If two players tie for
largest, 2 points each, no points for next largest. If three
or four players tie for largest, 1 point each, no points for
next largest. Any ties for second largest, 0 points each.
For each player, score 1 point for each unused Nature
Finally, tally all points and the player with the most
points wins! In the case of a tie, the player with the most
Two pairs of bears for 11 points
A line of two elk and line of three elk
Six connected mountains for 6 points
which was tied with Ash, so a bonus
Four connected forests for 4 points
which was a three-way tie, so a bonus
Seven connected prairies for 7 points
which was less than Ash, so a bonus
Eight connected wetlands for 8 points
which was more than Lee or Ash, so a bonus 3 points
Five connected rivers for 5 points which was the least, so no bonus
Two unused Nature Tokens for 2 points
following exceptions: only give yourself a Starter
Habitat Tile and place the stacks of Habitat Tiles to the
Turn Summary: Follow a turn as usual, but before you
replace the Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token in the
display, discard the tile and token furthest from the draw
stacks, then slide the remaining two tiles and two tokens
away from the draw stacks. The discarded tile and token
Tiles and two new Wildlife Tokens and place them in
On your turn you spend a Nature Token so you can take
the Keystone Tile and the matching Elk Wildlife Token.
After you have placed the tile and token into your
environment, discard the tile and token furthest from
the draw stacks (The Mountains-Wetlands tile and the
compare your score. For the full
Cascadia Solo Mode experience, try
Setup: The Family Variant setup is the same as the standard
may choose to skip step 3 depending on if you want majority
scoring. The highest score wins!
Score points shown for each group of
the same wildlife, depending on group
size. Groups may be in any shape.
Slide the remaining two Habitat Tiles and two Wildlife
Tokens away from the stacks, creating two pairs . Then refill the empty spaces in the
Example above is a group of three Salmon, a
group of two Foxes, a group of two Elk, two
single Bears, and three single Hawks.
The Intermediate Variant plays the same as the Family Variant
but use the Intermediate Variant Wildlife Scoring Card which
has different scoring for different sized groups.
BEARS score for creating groups of bears of various sizes. In each case, bear groups may be in any shape or
orientation, but two groups may not be placed next to one another. Each group must contain the exact number of
bears shown on the scoring card, in order to score. Card clarifications: Score an increasing number of points,
based on the total number of pairs of bears. Score 10 points for each group of exactly three bears. Score for
each group of bears 1-3 in size, and awards a bonus of 3 points for having one of each of the 3 group sizes. Score
for each group of bears 2-4 in size.
ELK score for creating groups of elk. Most elk cards require the groups to be in the exact shape/formation
pictured on the card. Unlike bears, elk groups may be placed next to one another, but each elk may only score
once, for a single group/formation. When scoring elk groups that are connected, always score the groups based
on the interpretation that would result in the largest number of points. Card clarifications: Score for groups
in straight lines. Straight lines, as pictured, must be connected from flat side to flat side of the hexagons, in any
orientation. Score for groups in the exact shapes shown, in any orientation.
Score for each contiguous group of elk, an increasing number of points, based on size. These groups may be of
any shape or size. Groups must be in a circular formation, as pictured.
SALMON score for creating runs of salmon. A run is defined as a group of adjacent salmon, where each salmon is
adjacent to no more than two other salmon. (Note: This means that a group of 3 salmon in a triangle shape may
count as a run, but no other salmon may be attached to this run). Each run of salmon may not have any other
salmon adjacent to it. Card clarifications: Score for each run, based on size, up to a maximum size of 7.
Score for each run, based on size, up to a maximum size of 5. Score for each run, based on size, between 3 and
5. Score for each run of salmon, one point for each salmon in the run, plus one point for each adjacent animal
HAWKS score for spreading out over the landscape. Hawks can score for either each hawk, each pair of hawks,
or for lines of sight between hawks. A line of sight is a straight line from flat side to flat side of the hexagons, as
pictured. A line of sight is only interrupted by the presence of another hawk (therefore, line of sight may not cross
from one hawk to another, through a hawk). Card clarifications: Score an increasing number of points for each
hawk that is not adjacent to any other hawk. Score an increasing number of points for each hawk that is not
adjacent to any other hawk, and also has a direct line of sight to another hawk. Score 3 points for each line of
sight between two hawks. . Score for each pair of
hawks, an increasing number of points based on the number of unique animal types between them . Each hawk may only be part of one pair.
FOXES score for adjacencies to other animals. Foxes score either individually or in pairs, and each fox or fox pair is
independently scored, with an increasing number of points, depending on whether conditions are met in any of the
adjacent habitat spaces (6 in the case of a single fox, 8 in the case of a fox pair in Card D). Card clarifications:
Score for each fox, an increasing number of points based on the number of unique animal types directly adjacent to it. Score for each fox, an increasing number of points based on the number of unique
animal pairs directly adjacent to it. As pictured, pairs of other animals do not need
to be adjacent to each other. Score for each fox, an increasing number of points based on the number of similar
animals directly adjacent to it. Only score the most abundant adjacent animal type.
Score for each fox pair, an increasing number of points based on the number of unique animal pairs directly adjacent to it. As pictured, pairs of other animals do not need to be adjacent to each other.
Setup: The Family Variant setup is the same as the standard
may choose to skip step 3 depending on if you want majority
scoring. The highest score wins!
Score points shown for each group of
the same wildlife, depending on group
size. Groups may be in any shape.
The Intermediate Variant plays the same as the Family Variant
but use the Intermediate Variant Wildlife Scoring Card which
has different scoring for different sized groups.
Scenarios can be played in multi-player or solo mode. Each of the scenarios will show you which Wildlife Scoring Cards
to use and 1-4 objectives that must all be completed to pass the scenario. When playing solo, we suggest starting with
scenario 1 and working your way up to 15 as they get progressively more difficult. You may only fill in your Achievement
shape when you pass the scenario. When playing multi-player, choose any scenario. All players who successfully pass
the scenario may fill in their Achievement shape. Whenever you fill in a shape, fill in the next shape on your trail on the
Study the Cascadian habitats and wildlife to gain Achievements as you hike your way through the landscape to become
is the Achievements hiking chart where up to 5 players can keep track of their overall progress. You may begin gaining
Achievements at any time. To do so, write your name below any of the colored hiking tracks. Each time you play, choose
the instructions. From now on, whenever you gain an Achievement from any of the Achievement modes, fill in
your shape under the appropriate mode and then come back to this page and fill in the next shape on your hike from left to
right. Can you become a Cascadian biologist?
Play at least # of each Wildlife shown
Fully score Wildlife # of times
Wildlife types cannot be placed next to one another
Score at least # points per any # Habitats
Habitat types cannot be placed next to one another
Score at least # points in each Wildlife shown
Wildlife type cannot be placed on Habitat type
Score at least # points per Habitat shown
1st Wildlife type must be adjacent to 2nd Wildlife type
Score # total points in ildlife or abitat
Score at least # points per any # Wildlife
Study the Cascadian habitats and wildlife to gain Achievements as you hike your way through the landscape to become
is the Achievements hiking chart where up to 5 players can keep track of their overall progress. You may begin gaining
Achievements at any time. To do so, write your name below any of the colored hiking tracks. Each time you play, choose
the instructions. From now on, whenever you gain an Achievement from any of the Achievement modes, fill in
your shape under the appropriate mode and then come back to this page and fill in the next shape on your hike from left to
right. Can you become a Cascadian biologist?
Scenarios can be played in multi-player or solo mode. Each of the scenarios will show you which Wildlife Scoring Cards
to use and 1-4 objectives that must all be completed to pass the scenario. When playing solo, we suggest starting with
scenario 1 and working your way up to 15 as they get progressively more difficult. You may only fill in your Achievement
shape when you pass the scenario. When playing multi-player, choose any scenario. All players who successfully pass
the scenario may fill in their Achievement shape. Whenever you fill in a shape, fill in the next shape on your trail on the
of one Achievement shape in their column if an Achievement
was earned. Whenever you fill in a shape, fill in the next shape
on your trail on the Achievement hiking map .
1. At least one Habitat must match when placing tiles.
2. No matching Habitats may touch when placing tiles.
Have more than 10 of a single Wildlife
Score 5+ Points for all Habitats
Score 12+ Points for a single Habitat
Score 15+ Points from a single Habitat
Score 10+ Points for each Wildlife
Score 20+ Points for two Wildlife
Score 30+ Points for a single Wildlife
Have no completed Keystone Habitats
the normal rules with one rule restriction from the list to the
shape under the rule restriction that was used. Whenever
you fill in a shape, fill in the next shape on your trail on the
3. Habitat Scoring change: All Habitat corridors of
exactly three count for 3 points each.
4. Habitat Scoring change: Habitat corridors must be
5. Play with a display of only three pairs of tiles/
6. Play with two sets of Wildlife Scoring Cards - players
each choose which of the two they wish to score.
7. Do not use Starter Habitat Tiles. Instead, each players
environment starts with two random Habitat Tiles.
8. Two Nature Tokens are required to take a Nature
9. You may not place the Wildlife Token on the Habitat
10. Play with revealing scoring cards - each player starts
in their hand , and any remaining are public on
the table. When you play a nature token, reveal your
scoring card by placing it face-up on the table.
The Grizzly Bear is the largest of
the North American bear species and can tower 8 ft tall
diet is typically berries, fruits, and nuts, however, they are
opportunistic omnivores, meaning they will eat a variety of
plants and animals. Grizzly populations have been massively
impacted by human settlement of their territories. Although
conservation efforts have been successful at stabilizing
populations in some areas, the number of Grizzlies now is less
than 5% of the number that used to roam the land.
The Roosevelt Elk is the largest
species of elk in the region - they can grow to be 10 ft long and
around 6 ft tall, and weigh over 1,000 lbs! The Roosevelt Elk was
named after president Theodore Roosevelt, who established the
Mount Olympus National Monument in 1909, in order to protect the animals and their habitat.
The Chinook Salmon is the largest
of the Pacific Salmon species found in Cascadia. Chinook Salmon
have an incredibly large range and can be found throughout
the Pacific Northwest, all the way down the coast of California
and as far west as Asia, across the Pacific Ocean. Many salmon
populations are threatened by human settlement, especially
by dams and development in and near waterways, as well as
The Red-Tailed Hawk is one of North
Americas most common bird species. It can be found throughout
Cascadia, as well as throughout the continent. Its wingspan is
and they attack with a slow dive with their legs outstretched,
which is different from a falcon, which swoops towards its prey.
The Red Fox is one of the most widespread
mammals in the entire northern hemisphere. The Cascade Red
Fox is a subspecies of red fox that is found in the prairies and
subalpine areas at the foot of the Cascade Mountains. Red foxes
rodents to birds, eggs, and even insects.
The Columbia is one of the largest, and perhaps most well-
known rivers in all of Cascadia! It winds its way from
headwaters in the Rocky Mountains of British Columbia all the
way to meet the Pacific Ocean near Astoria, Oregon. The river is
salmon, including the Chinook, Coho, Sockeye, and Steelhead.
Wetlands are often referred to as Natures Kidneys because
they are so effective at cleaning aquatic ecosystems by
pulling nutrients like phosphorus out of water. Wetlands are
extremely biodiverse, meaning they contain a wide variety
of life. They are also highly productive landscapes, since their
abundant plant life effectively converts the suns energy into
The forests of Cascadia are some of the most beautiful and
diverse in the entire world. The Douglas Fir is the dominant
species in many of the old-growth forests. The Hoh Rainforest
located on Washingtons Olympic Peninsula is one of the
wettest places, receiving over 10 feet of rain each year! Forests
are extremely important carbon sinks, as trees hold large
amounts of carbon and are important links in reducing global
Prairies are grassland ecosystems that are often open with
sparse tree cover. In Cascadia, many of the prairie areas are
found in the more arid, high desert parts of the region. Prairies
might seem like they are just grassy plains, but they are some
of the most diverse places on earth, supporting many different
wildlife species including rodents, reptiles, birds, and many
The Cascade Range stretches from southern British Columbia
all the way to Northern California. The range features both
volcanic mountains, like Mt. St. Helens which erupted in 1980,
and non-volcanic mountains like the North Cascades. The
highest peak in the range is Mt. Rainier which towers nearly
15,000 feet above sea level. Mt. Rainier is a major feature on
the Seattle skyline, and is one of the most iconic geographic
the best possible experiences by involving everyone in the entire process. We strive to build
profits. This CoLab publication of Cascadia is a passion project for everyone involved, and
we are all part of an interconnected team - we take risks and are rewarded together.
Randy Flynn - design, development
Molly Johnson - art direction, administration, development, marketing
Dylan Mangini - graphic design, marketing
Robert Melvin - development, administration, logistics
Kevin Russ - graphic design, marketing, development
Shawn Stankewich - project management, production, development, marketing
Solo Mode Design - Shawn Stankewich
Scenario & Achievements Design - Randy Flynn, Robert Melvin, Shawn Stankewich
Nicolas Bongiu - director of projects
We would like to thank these friends for their playtesting and support of Cascadia:
Kalil Alobaidi, Julie Arenivar, Marleen Arenivar, Haley Shae Brown, Brian Chandler, Joseph Z. Chen, Jeremy Davis, Chris
Domes, Justin Faulkner, Manuel Fernandez, Jacki Flynn, Ken Grazier, Kevin Grote, Spencer Harris, Ashwin Kamath, Carla
Kopp, Emma Larkins, Peter McPherson, Julian Madrid, Chad Martinell, Gavin McGruddy, Aaron Mesburne, Tony Miller,
Chris Morris, Robert Newton, Kathryn Nicholls, Eric Nicholls, Sophie Nicholls, Rhys Nicholls, Tom Rorem, Ryan Sanders,
Taylor Shuss, Cody Thompson, Samantha Vellucci, Lauren Woolsey, Mark Yuasa, and John Zinser. Arcane Comics, Blue
Deloso, Bojan Despotovic, Jacki Flynn, Jim & Pam Flynn, Benjamin Guinane, Michael & Holly Indence, Theresa L.
Misenhelter, The Monaghan Family, Dexter Nicholson, Morgan Nicholson, Aaron M Pope, Erik Schick, Jenny & Andy
 2021Alderac Entertainment Group.
2505 Anthem Village Dr. Suite E-521
All rights reserved. Printed in China.
Warning: Choking Hazard! Not for use
by children under 3 years of age.