Skip to content
AEG (Alderac Entertainment Group)
TLDR: click for final thoughts and scores
First thing to do is remove habitat tiles according to the Setup in the rulebook depending on player count. Choose a set of Wildlife Scoring Cards and lay them out for all to see. Then, give each player a random starting board and decide on the first player. Place stacks of the remaining habitat tiles face down, the bag of wildlife tokens and nature tokens within easy reach. Finally reveal four habitat tiles face up, and four nature tokens to create the market. Set up is now complete! It all should be done in a jiffy!
Tiles and tokens are replaced after every turn so there is always four to choose from. If ever there are three matching animal tokens on offer, you can choose to wipe those and redraw three new tiles. However, if four matching animal tokens are ever present, they must be wiped and replaced. Wiped tiles go back into the draw bag after the new ones have been placed.
What its like
The other point I labour, that jolts and conflicts for some, is that the habitat terrains do not have to match when you place them down. It is obviously beneficial if you do, but there are some occasions, say when you want an animal in a particular location, when you might want to ignore the fact you are placing a forest next to water, and that is okay!
The box is okay, but there is only a cardboard divide for the tiles and a well for everything else. It is usable, but it would be lovely to have an insert where the tiles are divided to aid in the setups for different player counts.
Final thoughts on Cascadia
Number of players:
1 to 4
Publishers Recommended Age:
Setting Up and Take Down Time:
Artwork and Components
Value for Money
Relatively quick turns
Lots of replayability with different cards
Not the most beautiful
Box insert could be better
Punchboard might be misaligned
Current Best Price on
Buy it now
Buy it now
As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
We also are an affiliate of
These affiliate advertising programs are designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to their websites.
Our Mail List Needs You!
Sign up today
Some New Cool Content
AireCon 2025 Roundup
Whatcha looking for?
Hall of Fame
Days Out Ideas
(automatically updated from BGG)
Narrow it down
High Player Count
Obligatory Archive List
Back To Top
Keep up to date
Frequently Asked Questions
Look at what weve just written
AireCon 2025 Roundup
Everything you could possibly want
Hall of Fame
SAVE & ACCEPT