Ttulo: Cascadia in 2025
Presentation - 10
Engagement - 7
Value - 8
> Final Score: 8.5 / 10
The Pacific Northwest is a beautiful place. Welcome to the region known as Cascadia, where you will be challenged with creating a diverse landscape, all the while managing how different animal habitats mesh with one another. Can you successfully create the most harmonious ecosystem, or will you fail to achieve the proper balance?
Designer: Randy Flynn
Artist: Beth Sobel
Player Count: 1-4 Players
Playing Time: 30-45 minutes
Welcome tothe Pacific Northwest?!
Scoring in Cascadia happens in a few basic ways, which dictates the strategy behind where to place your habitat tiles and wildlife tokens, and what you might need to stop your opponents from grabbing. For the habitat tiles, they are scored by measuring how large of a habitat corridor you build for each of the five types. You score 1 point per habitat tiles in your LARGEST group of each type. For example, I may have two separate Forests in my environment, with one being 5 tiles in size and the other being 3 tiles in size. I would score 5 points here for my largest forest (and nothing for any of the other smaller forests). Additionally, there is a bonus that varies based on player count, but the person who has the single largest of each habitat tile corridor receives bonus points  incentivizing you to keep track of what your opponents are doing and try to always stay one step ahead.
Examples of scoring cards for each animal (these are some of the most basic)
Solo Mode  Sometimes its great to wander alone
My first attempt at solo mode  a 97 point winner for Scenario 1
Final Verdict (using the BGG scoring system):
Core 2-4 Player Mode: 9/10 (Excellent  Very Much Enjoy Playing)
Solo Mode: 8/10 (Very Good  Enjoy Playing and Would Suggest It)
Then you might try the Landmarks expansion! I bet you would like it!
Ttulo: Cascadia: The Perfect Mix of Strategy and Fun in Under an Hour!
Totally agree. I played this a short while ago after several months on the shelf. It just plays so easily, has few rules, isn't aggressive and looks good on the table. I play solo so its easy to see the requirements.
One downside i have found: the configuration cards would have been so much better is they had included examples of specific requirements. I had to keep going back to the rules for clarifications.
Medium Light Weight
Beth Sobel art. Need I say more?
The simplicity of choice: take one set of landscape tile and animal token and place both in your play area. But the choices of whats best for you and where to put your choices feel almost endless
Cascadia scales so well in both player count and difficulty level. Ive enjoyed solo plays and plays of 4. Weve tried the family variant as well as many combinations of goal cards and loved it every time
Player interaction is pretty limited/non-existent, which might be a minus to some players.
There is an element of luck with the tile/token pairings
Ttulo: The Lure of Cascadia
It was there, in the elk under an azure sky, in the clacking of pebbles rolling down a scarped mountain slope.
The lure of Cascadia. I was captivated.
Because, above all, that's what Cascadia has been for us - a beautiful, absorbing journey. Nearly two years have passed, and I can say we have visited - are still visiting - Cascadia, our Cascadia.
Together, we have scaled the heights where hawks survey everything - especially other hawks.
We have marvelled at the elk herds straddling entire habitat corridors.
We have formed perfect salmon chains and identical groups of bears carefully segregated from each other.
We have slid habitats into place with architectural mastery.
And we keep on and on. We open the box, and Cascadia exists again.
In my more absurd moments, I sometimes imagine meeting someone from Cascadia. I go goggle-eyed and babble stuff like, "Wow, a person from Cascadia! Tell me, do the elks there really stand around in weird geometric formations? And the hawks - do they all do that 'line of vision' thing?"
No, don't laugh. It was just like that when my family visited the place where the TV series Downton Abbey was filmed. We couldn't help asking the staff there if the actors were 'like that in real life'.
I dream so.
Just take the name, for example.
Cascadia.
But in Cascadia, I never really suffer that stab of randomness that pure luck inflicts. Luck is there, of course, in the draw of the tiles and counters, but it is veiled by the Cascadian mists.
Here, luck plays the part of nature's unpredictability. So when those much-needed bears fail to come out of the bag, that doesn't feel like bad luck, it feels more like bears being bears. "Maybe they're just hibernating," I joke. "Yeh, 'cos bears hibernate, don't they? And salmon have their seasons, right? So who am I to get annoyed when they don't answer my petty demands? This is Cascadia, this is nature! A bit of humility, please!"
I often end up muttering this kind of thing under my breath during play. Sometimes my wife mumbles back her assent, though too often she's busy muttering her own thoughts. "Oh, can't I just twist that tile the other way so it fits with this new one?" The answer is always "No'", of course, unless I'm also in a spot and in need of a favour. (Don't be scandalised - we only commit such a crime when we've both blown our chances of achieving our objectives.)
Our Cascadian hikes are often spent like this, in a gentle communion of muttering. Which is what makes it a journey rather than a rivalry. We're not after the winning score; we're after that elusive consonance of puzzle with nature. And there is a lot of that along the way.
Take the habitats. Tile-laying has never been so organic. Watching habitats evolve, it's easy to forget that this is basically a puzzle. As sweeping forests blend with threads of intertwining mountains and rivers, we breathe the air of balance and consonance. Forces of nature and logic fuse in a colourful dance of biospheric patterns.
We love watching those patterns grow. Closed clusters of fiercely jealous bears form among serene elk herds, peppered with the occasional snooping, subversive fox and interlaced by the exuberant flow of salmon - all overarched by that clear-eyed geometry of hawks.
We love how objectives and animals alter priorities and behaviours. Now, suddenly, the elks are the geometrically arranged ones, and foxes unwittingly become a unifying force. Everything ebbs and flows, determined and guided by the shifting interactions of tokens, tiles and goals.
It's that duality that most strikes a chord in me. Because it is a mirror image of my own. The duality of right-brain, left-brain. Of poetry and puzzle, creativity versus reason. My inner reality and out-there reality.
Duality. It's what would do my head in, if my head wasn't so in tune with all this intoxicating charm.
Take, for example, scenario 13 - an unusually puzzly one for me. (Dozens of attempts and I still haven't cracked it, sigh.) Here, hawks are supposed to stick like limpets to elks, but not vice versa. A puzzle 'in extremis', it seems, making animals into a kind of strung-out molecular structure (see the formula E8H5, where E = elk, H = hawk).
An echo of natural processes, perhaps? What is that? Poetic puzzliness? Puzzly in Motion?
It's seeking that fusion of disparate elements that keeps us on our trek. Even when the going gets muddy, we still have the innate beauty of Cascadia before us, inviting us to curl and bend its habitats like carpets under the feet of crystalline patterns of animals. It soothes, it rewards, it humbles.
And it challenges.
At least it challenges me. Especially over my view of foxes.
I wish to make a confession.
For decades, I have been a fox-despiser. Bedtime stories like The Gingerbread Man and Pinocchio have left their mark. Foxes have been portrayed as insidious, Machiavellian vagrants, and I have gone along with the drift.
What was going off inside that bag? Foxes seemed to reproduce there at will and sneakily nose their way into our grasp.
Things though have begun to change. Foxes are still foxes, but I have begun to listen to the hidden consonance of Cascadia. And I hear a deeper, pre-pinocchian truth.
Foxes don't particularly mind what species they hang around. They're not proud, not aloof, like some other animals. They're flexible, they're sociable.
Certainly Cascadia rewards their sociability. How many times lately have I placed a single fox in the middle of the multitude and hit a mini jackpot? I've been finding that I'm getting a decent bunch of points just from careful fox placement. They're fast becoming the key, the vital supporting act.
Who knows, we might even visit the real place one of these days ...
I too want to thank the designers, artists, publishers! And thanks Chris for putting your thoughts to words.
Belated thanks for the encouraging feedback (I have Wingspan on my to-get list). I lost count how many times we've played Cascadia over the last two years. Here's to many more years of playing!
Take a tile, take an animal, put it adjacent to an existing tile in your own tableau, put an animal on a tile that allows it. If you have a pine cone, take any combo of tile and animal. Rinse and repeat until the specified number of tiles runs out depending on player count.
Setup/Tear Down and Footprint
Simple to tear down and footprint is modest. Since each individual player has their own little area to build on, you'll need a slightly bigger table than what you think. My dad played and built a crazy long river so that made me rethink space on the table. My friends made some crazy shapes that required a little bit more space than what we had so I say a modest table and it'll need to be bigger if you get your player count high enough.
I give it a whopping 9.9/10!
Trudge on nature peeps! Trudge on!
Ttulo: Cascading Through My Heart
Hexagons Are Bestagons
I'm feeling a bit blue, to be honest.
Publish Year: 2021
Mechanics:  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,
Rear of the box showing internal components.
Hexagons with linen finish and beautiful artwork? I'm very happy.
I can't help but make puns, it's in my nature (tokens).
These card backs are minimalistic, but they are excellent for sorting the various objective types.
Cloth bag for holding all of the various animal discs.
Ruling the various species.
This objective is certainly bear-able.
Want to go for a long run?
Variant for family play and a fox objective.
With players being required to choose a pair of landscape and animal tiles, this might lead to suboptimal animal placement, so players may choose on their turn to spend a nature token to choose a set of animal and landscape tiles that are not paired with one another. This can only be done once per turn as each turn allows the choice of only one animal and landscape pair to be added to a player's tableau. Additionally a player may choose to spend a nature token to wipe the animals on the board, replacing them with additional animals from the bag. This can be done any number of times as long as a player has the tokens for this.
Building In Replayability
Achievements and more!
Solo rules and clarifications on variants and scoring the animals.
Various scoring cards set up for a specific scenario. Note the different letters at the bottom right of the cards.
Cascadia earns a 94/100 from me.
Originally posted on the Journey Into the Unknown Blog here on BGG.
FYI you can put decimals in your BGG ratings
In Cascadia, you are building out your own landscape filled with different habitats and wildlife, puzzling everything together to score the most points for large groups of the same terrain and meeting the scoring conditions for each animal type.
Each turn has you selecting one of four pairings, each with one habitat tile and one wildlife token, which are then added to your personal area: habitat tiles adjacent to any existing tile, and wildlife tokens onto any open tile that shows that animal type. A new habitat-wildlife pairing is drawn to replace what was selected, with the occasional clearing of animal tiles when there are too many of the same type.
Once all tiles have been drafted, final scores are determined by scoring how well each player grouped their habitat tiles, as well as how effectively their animals meet the conditions on the corresponding wildlife cards.
The heart of Cascadia is found in the intertwining of two puzzles: trying to group tiles of the same terrain type and arranging the animals on top of those terrains. You are always forced to take a terrain tile and wildlife token that have been paired together, leading to a lot of interesting tradeoffs as you weigh how much you value each of the options that are available.
Each tile that you place limits which animals can be placed there in the future, so you are always thinking ahead to how you can keep the second layer of the puzzle flexible. At the same time, you dont want to waste any turns, so you are always trying to select an animal that you are currently able to place.
There is a certain element of push-your-luck as you decide how flexible to keep your animal-placement options, and how aggressively to pursue high-scoring wildlife arrangements that may require many of one type of animal. It is often players who can balance keeping their options open with optimizing placements across both layers of the puzzle that come out on top.
Player Counts - Cascadia plays well from two to four players, and if you want to get more of your puzzling fix, there is also a solid solo mode.
Short Setup vs. Long Setup - There is a little bit of setup as you remove tiles based on the number of players, but still relatively quick to get playing.
Easy to Teach vs. Hard to Teach - Cascadias low rule complexity is one of its big strengths in introducing it to new players, but there are still a handful of modern mechanisms here that need to be understood.
Things to Like
Paired Drafting Provides Fun Tradeoffs - The drafting in Cascadia always requires you to take a tile and an animal together, a decision that is more interesting and nuanced than selecting just one in isolation. You are always assessing the value of two pieces to determine the overall value of the pair which adds a nice complexity, but the inclusion of only four pairs keeps the decision space from feeling like too much.
Things to Dislike
Ryan (10 Plays) - 8
Daniel (9 Plays) - 8.5
Watch Extended Final Thoughts
Is It For You?
If you want meaningful player interaction or arent drawn to crunchy spatial puzzles, then Cascadia might not be for you.
Ttulo: Playing with a 5 year old
I made one minor adjustment to the rules, which was that the pinecones were only to allow us to select non-overlapping habitats and animals, and I'll add that he can wipe the animals at a later time. But, he did well matching the habitats, and telling him that the animals needed friends helped with putting the animals together. The only thing he struggled with was creating stranded animals or putting too many together where he wasn't getting points for them, so while we tried the intermediate (points on 2, 3, and 4+), he lost a lot of points on single animals, so we will stick with the family variant for now.
As a funny ending to our two plays yesterday, he then asked if we can play Ark Nova
This is wonderful. Thanks so much for sharing! Adapting the Family & Intermediate rules so they work for the kids you are playing with is a great way to go.
I doubt a 5yo could play Ark Nova optimally but I bet a few focused and motivated ones could start to grok a few rules and play with adults  if only to mix things up for the adults. They do not have to play perfectly to have a wonderful time with you or you with them.
One thing we do with our 5 year old is we pick scoring cards like normal and he gets points from which is higher. The selected point cards or the basic family cards. This way the adults can enjoy the puzzle and the kid has a fighting chance.
How to cascade.
If the tile you place your token on has only one animal type on it you can take a nature token. These can be spent on your turn to either replace any of the animal tokens in the display or you can use it to take any combination of tile and token and not just the set ones.
Each animal has its own scoring conditions and you get points depending on those cards. For example, in the set A cards the elks will score for how many and you have in a straight line, the hawks dont want any other hawk adjacent to them and the bears want to be in pairs with no other bears adjacent to them. Lastly youll get one point for each nature token you havent used.
Grin and bear it
Cascadia gives you a lovely combination of things to mull over as you survey the choices of tokens and tiles.
Getting the most out of your Elks
"Cecilia" was best performed by the original artists, the incomparable Simon and Garfunkle. The song was actually written by Paul Simon. And please don't "OK Boomer" me.
"Cecilia" was best performed by the original artists, the incomparable Simon and Garfunkle. The song was actually written by Paul Simon. And please don't "OK Boomer" me.
I knew it was a cover but it dont think Ive heard the original. I went with the version I knew and that was all over the radio at the time
Thanks. Haha yeah, Ive played Calico a couple of times, it definitely a good puzzle but this gives you a lot more freedom so if you do mess up a placement you can just set up something somewhere else, its a lot more chill in that respect
"Cecilia" was best performed by the original artists, the incomparable Simon and Garfunkle. The song was actually written by Paul Simon. And please don't "OK Boomer" me.
I knew it was a cover but it dont think Ive heard the original. I went with the version I knew and that was all over the radio at the time
Well, it's really off topic but I feel prompted to make a simple note. I had no idea at all that an alternate existed . . . and the version familiar to me was indeed all over the radio at the time.
"Cecilia" was best performed by the original artists, the incomparable Simon and Garfunkle. The song was actually written by Paul Simon. And please don't "OK Boomer" me.
I knew it was a cover but it dont think Ive heard the original. I went with the version I knew and that was all over the radio at the time
Well, it's really off topic but I feel prompted to make a simple note. I had no idea at all that an alternate existed . . . and the version familiar to me was indeed all over the radio at the time.
I dont think Suggs/ Madness (the band he sang with) were really known in America so it probably didnt get released over there. It was alright, just one of those ear worms that was everywhere at the time haha
Love Cascadia, hate either version of Cecilia
Love Cascadia, hate either version of Cecilia
Ttulo: How Does Cascadia Hold Up, and Do You Need the Expansion?
What we Loved
What We Hated (or Loved Slightly Less)
Final Thoughts and Verdict
Barbara: I have nothing different to add from my other half! On this we are in complete and rare agreement!
Cascadia Landmarks Expansion: Decent, but Unnecessary
James R. Gracen
Whether were building out our own areas like in Barenpark or adding to a central area like in Carcassonne, we love creating a unique arrangement every time. No matter whether we win or not, we feel accomplished seeing what weve made.
And after having played it numerous times, were happy to report that Cascadia knocks it out of the park on all accounts!
How to play Cascadia
The objective in Cascadia is to gain the most points by building beautiful habitat for various wildlife that each score in their own, unique ways.
Each player starts with a random 3-hex habitat tile that shows all 5 habitat types (Mountains, Forests, Prairies, Wetlands, Rivers) and all 5 wildlife types (Bear, Salmon, Elk, Hawk, Fox). Each starting tile has a different layout of those elements.
Reveal 4 Habitat Tiles and place them in a central row. Then draw 4 Wildlife Tokens from the bag and place them one at a time next to a habitat tile.
On a players turn, they select a Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token pair and play them in their own growing environment.
The player first places their new tile adjacent to any tile already in their environment. When doing so, the player does not need to match up the habitat types. It may be beneficial to do so for scoring, but it is not required.
Then the player places their Wildlife Token on an available tile in their environment. The type of animal placed must match the symbol on the tile. Some tiles show multiple animal types. Any of the pictured animals may be placed there. However, once placed, it may not be moved nor can any other animal be placed on that tile.
If the player places the animal on a tile that shows only a single animal type, they receive a Nature Token.
On future turns, players may use their Nature Tokens to do one of the following:
1. Take any of the available Habitat Tiles and any of the available Wildlife Tokens. They do not need to be paired.
2. Wipe any number of Wildlife Tokens and replace them.
Players may use as many Nature Tokens as they would like on their turn.
At the end of a players turn, they draw a new Wildlife Token and reveal a new Habitat Tile to create a new pairing.
Players continue taking turns until there are no more Habitat Tiles to replace the one taken that turn. Each player will have had 20 turns.
* Habitat: For each habitat type, players score 1 point per tile for their largest contiguous corridor of that habitat.
* Habitat Bonus: The largest contiguous corridor of each habitat also awards bonus points for the players with the largest of that habitat.
* Nature Tokens: Receive 1 point for each unused Nature Token.
The player with the most points wins!
Can the whole family enjoy Cascadia?
The basic rules are easy to learn and theres a great balance of strategy and luck. The tricky part is keeping track of the various ways your wildlife with score and choosing the right pair of habitat and wildlife to take to add to your growing environment each turn. Plus, with each turn, youll have even more options of where to build out your environment.
There are many reasons why we love playing Cascadia.
Which brings us to another thing we love  the choices.
While taking a habitat and wildlife pair and placing them each turn isnt much to do on your turn, it can cause quite the consternation when youre balancing the various things you want to do to score points.
To do well, youll have to keep in mind 5 different ways of scoring the wildlife. Then youll have to choose the right pair from the central area and place them in a valuable location. On every turn, youll have 3 open habitat where you can place an animal. However, if you dont plan ahead, you may get stuck with those 3 spaces only showing 1 or 2 types of wildlife  thus seriously curtailing your options.
Thats where its great to make sure you have Nature Tokens on hand. With those, you can break the need to pick a matched pair of habitat and wildlife on your turn and can choose any of the 4 available.
Which means that every time you play, youll be trying to arrange your wildlife in different patterns. Its fun puzzle to figure out.
Ttulo: Gaming with children aged 14 to 16 - Cascadia
Simplicity of rules:
Did the children enjoy it?
This is a weird one, because when I suggest it they'll say "Oh yes, I remember that one, that's quite fun, yes we can play that", and they'll happily play it and enjoy it. However, they will never choose it themselves, so it doesn't actually come out all that often with them. I think it's just a bit too dry, without a theme that shines through and draws them in, or with quite enough variety between plays to make them want to play again.
And how is it from the adult's point of view? ;halfstar:
There were certainly times when I knew my wife was not paying attention to what I was doing because it would have been very easy to trip me up, but she felt the same way too.
Its just nice.
Endless variability.
With different starting tiles, variable animal scoring tiles used, and even a couple of variants, Cascadia will feel a little different every time you play it. Its a different puzzle on every play. I saw that an expansion was just released, but I think theres enough replayability in the base box to keep us coming back over and over.
Keep or Cull?
Ttulo: Cascadia, durch Bordspelwereld [DE]
Die Tatsache, dass ich Anfang der Woche keine Zeit hatte, etwas zu schreiben, gibt mir das Gefhl, dass ich die ganze Woche herumgelaufen bin. Letztes Wochenende war ich mit meiner Familie in Cascadia.
Fr mich das zweite Mal, fr sie das erste Mal. Lies: Ich habe das Spiel gespielt, mich verliebt, es gekauft und whrend des Familienwochenendes versucht, meine Familie mit dem Kachelverlegungsvirus zu indoktrinieren. Warum ich seit diesem Wochenende an mir selbst zerbreche, dazu kommen wir gleich. Aber fangen wir ganz von vorne an.
In Cascadia knnen Sie Punkte erzielen, indem Sie Sechseckplttchen geschickt aneinander legen, um mit Kombinationen aus Tieren und deren Lebensrumen zu punkten. In jedem Zug knnen Sie eine Kombination aus einem Plttchen (das sowohl verschiedene Lebensrume als auch ein oder mehrere Tiere darstellt) und einem Tierplttchen whlen. Die Tierplttchen werden auf Plttchen gelegt, auf denen das Tier abgebildet ist. Nur auf diesen Plttchen darf das Tier platziert werden. Dies kann entweder auf das gerade gelegte Plttchen oder auf ein frheres Plttchen mit dem Tier sein.
Da man mit einem Startplttchen beginnt, das aus drei zusammenhngenden Plttchen besteht, hat man whrend des Spiels immer vier Plttchen, auf die man ein Tierplttchen legen kann. Sie knnen also nur dann eine Kombination aus Plttchen und Tierplttchen whlen, wenn Sie ein freies Plttchen haben, auf dem das Tier der gewhlten Kombination liegt. Man muss das Tier auch platzieren knnen. Auf jedem Plttchen befindet sich nur ein Tiermarker, auch wenn sich mehrere Tiere auf dem Plttchen befinden. Du erhltst Punkte fr die Kombination von Tierplttchen und fr die Gre der verschiedenen Arten von Gebieten, die du mit deinen Plttchen bildest. Fr jede Art von Gebiet erhalten Sie auerdem Bonuspunkte, wenn Sie bei der Endauszhlung das grte Gebiet haben. Wie hoch diese sind, hngt von der Anzahl der Spieler ab.
Die verschiedenen Lebensrume sind Feuchtgebiete, Flsse, Berge, Prrien und Wlder. Fr diese Gebiete gibt es keine Platzierungsregeln. Jedes Gebiet kann gegen jedes Gebiet spielen, aber das ist natrlich nicht klug, wenn man Punkte sammeln will, denn bei der Endauszhlung erhlt man nur von jedem Gebietstyp, also dem grten Gebiet, Punkte. Pro Plttchen, aus dem das Gebiet besteht, erhlt man dann einen Punkt.
Die Wertung der Tierplttchen ist ein bisschen ausgeklgelter und ziemlich genial, wenn Sie mich fragen. Im Spiel gibt es etwa fnf Tierarten: Der Grizzlybr, der Roosevelt-Wapiti (auch Hirsch genannt), der Chinook-Lachs, der Rotschwanzbussard und der Rotfuchs. Wie diese Tiere punkten, hngt von den Wertungskarten ab, die du vor dem Spiel ziehst. Fr jedes Tier gibt es vier verschiedene Wertungskarten. Daraus ergeben sich 20 verschiedene Wertungsszenarien/Kombinationen. Die Wertungskarten haben unterschiedliche Wertungsmechanismen, so dass es auch hier Variationen gibt.
In meinen ersten beiden Partien haben wir die in der Spielregel empfohlenen Szenarien gespielt, was der Ausgangspunkt dieser Rezension ist, aber keineswegs die einzige korrekte oder existierende Kombination, sondern als Beispiel zu sehen ist.
Der Grizzlybr punktet, indem er immer zwei Grizzlybren nebeneinander platziert. Ein dritter oder vierter Br macht die Kombination wertlos. Je mehr dieser Kombinationen es gibt, desto mehr sind sie wert. Die Hirsche erhltst du, indem du sie in geraden Reihen nebeneinander legst. Je lnger die Reihe ist, desto mehr Punkte gibt es. Du kannst bei der Endauszhlung mehrere Reihen haben, aber jedes Reh darf nur in einer Reihe zhlen. Von den Chinook-Lachsen muss eine mglichst lange Girlande gebildet werden, die nicht in einer geraden Linie verlaufen muss, aber sie mssen nebeneinander liegen. Es drfen nie 3 Lachse nebeneinander liegen, du darfst also keine scharfe Kurve machen. Je lnger dein Pendellachs ist, desto mehr Punkte gibt es, und das kann sich ganz schn summieren! Der Bussard ist nicht der schwierigste. Er darf einfach nicht an einen anderen Bussard angrenzen. Je mehr Bussarde, desto mehr ist jeder einzelne wert. Fr den Fuchs bekommst du maximal 6 Punkte. Fr jede andere Art, mit der man ihn umgibt, gibt es einen Punkt. Auch der Fuchs selbst zhlt.
Das Spiel ist ganz einfach: Whle eine Plttchen-Chip-Kombination und lege sie ab. Vier davon stehen immer zur Verfgung und werden nach einem Zug sofort wieder aufgefllt. Doch so einfach es auch scheint, man muss sich seine Entscheidungen gut berlegen. Denn manchmal sucht man ein bestimmtes Tier, aber es liegt nicht auf dem richtigen Landplttchen, oder umgekehrt. Und im Spiel, konzentrieren Sie sich darauf, die grten Flchen zu bilden, oder wollen Sie, dass Ihre Tiere optimal punkten? Und auf welches Tier setzen Sie hauptschlich? Schlielich knnen Sie nicht alles auf einmal machen. Manche Kombinationen sind in der Tat schwierig zu machen. Wie umgibt man einen Fuchs mit mglichst vielen Tieren, wenn man auch eine Reihe Rehe, eine Kombination aus Bren und ein Pendel aus Lachsen machen will? Es muss einfach funktionieren. Gleichzeitig muss man auch ein Auge darauf haben, was der Nachbar macht. Wenn er Rehe schiet, knnte es sich lohnen, sie ihm wegzuschnappen, und wenn Sie sehen, dass Ihr Gegner bestimmte Lebensrume vernachlssigt, knnen Sie diese auswhlen, um am Ende Boni fr Ihr grtes Gebiet zu erhalten.
Jetzt hre ich schon die ersten Kritiker in der Ferne rufen: "Man muss einfach Glck haben mit dem, was da sein wird. Der Glcksfaktor ist zu gro!" Das ist nicht ganz richtig. Tatschlich ist auf einem Groteil der Plttchen neben einem Tier auch ein Tannenzapfen abgebildet. Wenn Sie ein Tierplttchen auf ein Plttchen mit einem Tannenzapfen gelegt haben, erhalten Sie sofort ein Naturplttchen. Diese Plttchen sind am Ende des Spiels einen Punkt wert, aber im Spiel selbst sind sie noch wertvoller. Wenn du ein solches Naturplttchen abgibst, kannst du eine beliebige der vier Kombinationen whlen, du musst dich also nicht an die vorgegebene Kombination halten. Du kannst nehmen, was du willst. Wenn Sie drei gleiche Tierplttchen ablegen, knnen Sie sie auerdem kostenlos durch neue Plttchen ersetzen, was Ihnen mehr Mglichkeiten bietet. Hier mssen Sie keine Naturplttchen bezahlen.
Am Ende des Spiels werden die Tiere nach den gewhlten Tierkarten, den verschiedenen Lebensrumen, den Boni fr die grten Lebensrume und den verbleibenden Naturplttchen gewertet. Der Spieler mit den meisten Punkten gewinnt.
Cascadia punktet nicht umsonst in der Kategorie Familienspiele. Der scheinbar sehr einfache Mechanismus eignet sich schon fr kleine Kinder. Das Auslegen und Kombinieren ist an sich einfach und leicht zu bewerkstelligen. Gleichzeitig bieten die verschiedenen Wertungsmechanismen Herausforderungen fr fortgeschrittene Spieler. Wie kombiniert man Lebensrume und Tiere optimal? Wie platziert man seine Plttchen, um den hchsten Ertrag zu erzielen? Und welche Strategie whlen Sie, um Ihren Gegner zu berlisten? Du kannst auch den Schwierigkeitsgrad anpassen, indem du verschiedene Wertungskarten whlst und Kombinationen bildest, die das Spiel erschweren, z. B. indem sich die Tiere gegenseitig in die Quere kommen. Du kannst auch einen der Erfolge und Szenarien aus dem Handbuch auswhlen. Sie spielen dann nicht nur das Spiel, sondern erfllen auch bestimmte Ziele. Dadurch wird das Spiel mehr zu einem Wettbewerb und einem Spiel gegeneinander. Das ist super fr diejenigen, die Spiele hassen, bei denen man hauptschlich mit seinem eigenen Brett spielt und nicht gemeinsam auf einem! Pltzlich kdert man die gleichen Kombinationen mit den Zielen und es wird viel spannender. Gleichzeitig kannst du dir auch selbst Regeln auferlegen, um das Spiel spannender und schwieriger zu machen. Denken Sie zum Beispiel daran, dass bestimmte Lebensrume und Tiere nicht aneinander grenzen drfen.
Du siehst, die Mglichkeiten und Entscheidungen sind endlos. Und das ist auch der Grund, warum ich es fr ein so geniales Spiel halte. Jeder Spielliebhaber kann es nach seinem eigenen Geschmack und Niveau anpassen. Wer denkt, dass es sich um ein einfaches Spiel handelt, bei dem man einfach nur Steine wie Dominosteine zusammensetzt, der tuscht sich. Es steckt viel Tiefe und Abwechslung dahinter, von der ich jetzt schon wei, dass sie mir endloses Spielvergngen bereiten wird.
Das bringt mich auch zu dem Punkt, an dem ich mich darber aufrege. Meine Familie war genau so begeistert wie ich. Nur meine Schwester, die lief whrend des Spiels ein bisschen grummelnd herum. "Ich versteh das nicht, eigentlich ganz schn schwierig, man muss auf so viel auf einmal achten". Es berrascht nicht, dass sie deutlich gewonnen hat. Darber bin ich jetzt nicht sauer. Aber ber die Worte, die auf ihren Sieg folgten: "Ja, jetzt habe ich es verstanden, eigentlich ist es nur Kingdomino mit Sechsecken". Da hat mich eine Art stellvertretende Wut gepackt. So kann man dieses Spiel wirklich nicht darstellen. Das ist Fluchen in der Spielekirche. Damit wird dieses Spiel in jeder Hinsicht unter Wert verkauft!
Fairerweise muss ich sagen, dass ich das Spiel verstehe: Man legt verschiedene Bereiche an und sammelt Symbole in den Bereichen, um die Bereiche wertvoller zu machen, und man muss aus vordefinierten Plttchen whlen. Aber, liebe Leute, da hrt der Vergleich wirklich auf. Versteht mich nicht falsch, ich kann auch eine schnelle Partie Kingdomino zwischendurch genieen, nichts gegen dieses Spiel, aber Cascadia hat viel mehr Klasse, Features und, das sei auch erwhnt, ein schnes Design. Es ist wirklich ein Fest und eine Freude fr die Augen, wenn sich vor Ihren Augen ein immer grer werdendes Gebiet der Natur auf dem Tisch ausbreitet. Der Stil, die Verwendung von Farben, die Bilder der Tiere: alles ist gleichermaen berwltigend. Damit ist Herrn Flynn wirklich ein Traumdebt gelungen, wenn Sie mich fragen.
Ich bin ein Fan!
Ein groer Fan!
Bewertung fr Bordspelwereld durch: Anouk Wognum (Mungow),
Zuvor gepostet auf: 22-09-2023, mit einer Bewertung von: 8/10 Sterne
Diese deutsche bersetzung wurde aus dem Niederlndischen von DeepL erstellt. Wir denken, dass sie nicht 100% perfekt ist. Wenn Sie etwas verbessern knnen, lassen Sie es uns bitte wissen. Vielen Dank dafr!
Ttulo: Cascadia, by Bordspelwereld [EN]
The fact that I didn't have time to write anything earlier this week has made me feel exhausted all week. Last weekend I did Cascadia with my family.
In Cascadia you can score points by cleverly placing hexagon tiles together and thus score with combinations of both animals and the animals' habitats. Each turn you can choose from a combination of a tile (depicting different habitats and one or more animals) and an animal token. You place the animal tokens on tiles depicting this animal. The animal may only lie on this surface. This can be done on the tile just placed or on a previously placed tile on which the animal is depicted.
The different habitats are wetlands, rivers, mountains, prairies and forests. There are no placement rules for these areas. Any area can compete against any area, but that is of course not smart if you want to score points, because at the final count you only score from each area type, your largest area. You then score one point per tile that makes up the area.
You score the deer by placing them next to each other in straight lines. The longer the row, the more points. You can have multiple rows in the final count, but each deer can only count in one row. Make as long a stream as possible for the Chinook salmon, this does not have to be a straight line, but they must be adjacent to each other. There should never be 3 salmon adjacent to each other, so you cannot make a sharp turn. The longer your stream of salmon, the more points you get, and that can really add up! The buzzard is not the most difficult. It simply cannot be adjacent to another buzzard. The more buzzards, the more they become worth per piece. You score a maximum of 6 points for the fox. A point for each different animal species you surround him with. The fox itself also counts.
I am a fan! Big fan!
Published on 22-09-2023, with a rating of 8/10 stars
Ttulo: Cascadia: een gedroomd debuut!, door Bordspelwereld [NL]
Het feit dat ik niet eerder de tijd had deze week om iets te schrijven, maakt dat ik me de hele week al loop op te vreten. Afgelopen weekend deed ik Cascadia met mijn familie.
Voor mij de tweede keer, voor hen de eerste. Lees: Ik speelde het spel, werd verliefd, kocht het, en deed tijdens het familieweekend een poging om mijn familie te indoctrineren met het tile-placement-virus. We komen er zo op waarom ik me sinds dat weekend op loop te vreten. Maar eerst beginnen bij het begin.
In Cascadia kan je punten scoren door hexagon-tegels op een slimme manier aan elkaar te plaatsen en zo te scoren met combinaties van zowel dieren als de leefgebieden van de dieren. Elke beurt heb je de keuze uit een combinatie van een tegel (met daarop zowel verschillende leefgebieden als n of meerdere dieren afgebeeld) en een dierenfiche. De dierenfiches plaats je op tegels waarop dit dier afgebeeld staat. Enkel alleen daarop mag het dier liggen. Dit kan zowel op de zojuist aangelegde tegel als op een eerder gelegde tegel waarop het dier is afgebeeld.
Doordat je begint met een starttegel bestaande uit drie aaneengesloten tegels heb je gedurende het spel dus altijd vier tegels waarop je een dierenfiche mogelijk kwijt kan. Je kunt dus alleen een combinatie van een tegel en dierenfiche kiezen als je een vrije tegel hebt waar het dier uit de gekozen combinatie op staat. Je moet het dier kwijt kunnen. Op elke tegel komt maar n dierenfiche te liggen, ook wanneer er wel meer dieren op de tegel afgebeeld staan. Je scoort punten met de combinatie van dierenfiches en door de grootte van verschillende soorten gebieden die je vormt met je tegels. Per soort gebied krijg je ook nog bonuspunten als je bij de eindtelling het grootste gebied blijkt te hebben. Hoeveel dit is hangt af van het aantal spelers.
De verschillende leefgebieden zijn draslanden, rivieren, bergen, prairies en bossen. Er zijn geen plaatsingsregels voor deze gebieden. Elk gebied mag tegen elk gebied, maar dat is natuurlijk niet slim als je punten wilt scoren, want bij de eindtelling score je enkel van elke gebiedssoort, je grootste gebied. Je scoort dan een punt per tegel, waar het gebied uit bestaat.
De scoring van de dierenfiches zit wat vernuftiger in elkaar en is tamelijk briljant als je het mij vraagt. In het spel zijn er een vijftal soorten dieren: De grizzlybeer, de Roosevelt-Wapiti (oftewel: een hert), de Chinookzalm, De Roodstaartbuizerd en de Rode Vos. Hoe deze dieren scoren hangt af van de scoringskaarten die je voorafgaand aan het spel trekt. Voor elk dier zijn er vier verschillende scoringskaarten aanwezig. Waardoor er 20 verschillende scoringsscenarios/combinaties zijn. De scoringkaarten hebben verschillende scoringsmechanismes en ook daarin zit dus nog variatie.
De herten scoor je door ze in rechte lijnen naast elkaar te plaatsen. Hoe langer de rij, hoe meer punten. Je kan bij de eindtelling meerdere rijen hebben, maar elk hert mag maar meetellen in n rij. Van de Chinook-zalm maak je een zo lang mogelijke slinger, dit hoeft geen rechte lijn te zijn, maar ze moeten wel aan elkaar grenzen. Er mogen nooit 3 zalmen aan elkaar grenzen, dus je kan geen scherpe bocht maken. Hoe langer je slinger zalmen, hoe meer punten, en dat kan aardig oplopen! De buizerd is de moeilijkste niet. Die mag gewoon simpelweg niet aan een andere buizerd grenzen. Hoe meer buizerds, hoe meer ze per stuk waard worden. Voor de vos scoor je maximaal 6 punten. Voor elk verschillende diersoort waarmee je hem omringt een punt. De vos zelf telt ook mee.
Het spel verloop is vrij simpel: tegel/fiche combinatie kiezen en aanleggen. Hiervan liggen er steeds vier klaar en deze worden na een beurt direct bijgevuld. Echter, zo simpel als het lijkt, zo goed moet je nadenken over je keuzes. Want soms zoek je een bepaald dier, maar ligt deze niet bij de juiste landtegel, of precies andersom. En focus je in het spel op het vormen van de grootste gebieden, of wil je je dieren optimaal laten scoren? En op welk dier zet je dan voornamelijk in? Het kan namelijk niet allemaal tegelijk. Sommige combinaties zijn namelijk lastig te leggen. Want hoe omring je een vos met zoveel mogelijk dieren, als je van het hert ook nog een rij wil maken, van de beer een combinatie en van de zalm een slinger? Dat moet maar net lukken. Tegelijkertijd houd je ook in de gaten wat je buurman aan het doen is. Als die aan het scoren is op herten, kan het lonen die voor zijn neus weg te grissen, en wanneer je ziet dat je tegenstander bepaalde leefgebieden links laat liggen, kun jij juist die gaan kiezen om aan het einde bonussen te gaan scoren voor je grootste gebied.
Nou hoor ik in de verte de eerste critici al roepen: je moet maar net geluk hebben met wat er komt te liggen. De geluksfactor is te groot! Dat klopt niet helemaal. Op een groot deel van de tegels staat namelijk naast een dier ook nog een dennenappel afgebeeld. Wanneer je een dierenfiche hebt geplaatst op een tegel met een dennenappel, krijg je direct een natuurfiche. Deze fiches zijn aan het einde van het spel een punt waard, maar zijn in het spel zelf nog veel waardevoller. Tegen inlevering van zon natuurfiche, mag je namelijk uit de vier combinaties willekeurig kiezen en hoef je je dus niet te houden aan de combinaties zoals deze klaar liggen. Je mag gewoon pakken wat je hebben wilt. Ook mag je wanneer er drie dezelfde dierenfiches zijn klaar gelegd de dierenfiches gratis vervangen voor nieuwe fiches en dus meer keuzemogelijkheden. Hier hoef je geen natuurfiche te betalen.
Aan het einde van de spel scoor je de dieren volgens de gekozen dierenkaarten, de verschillende leefgebieden, de bonussen voor de grootste leefgebieden en de overgebleven natuurfiches. De speler met de meeste punten wint.
Cascadia scoort niet voor niets in de categorie familiespellen. Het op het oog zeer simpele mechanisme is geschikt vanaf jonge leeftijden. Het aanleggen en combineren is op zich simpel en goed te doen. Tegelijkertijd bieden de verschillende scoringsmechanismes uitdaging voor de gevorderde spelers. Hoe combineer je leefgebieden en dieren optimaal? Hoe plaats je je tegels voor het hoogste rendement? En welke strategie kies je om je tegenstander te slim af te zijn? Ook kun je de moeilijkheidsgraad aan passen door voor andere scoringskaarten te kiezen en door daarin combinaties te maken die het spel moeilijker maken doordat dieren elkaar bijvoorbeeld in de weg gaan zitten. Je kunt er ook voor kiezen om een van de prestaties en scenarios uit de handleiding te kiezen. Je speelt dan niet gewoon het spel, je bent dan ook nog bepaalde targets en doelen aan het halen. Hierdoor wordt het meer een wedstrijd en spel tegen elkaar. Dit is top voor de mensen die een hekel hebben aan spellen waarbij je voornamelijk met je eigen bordje bezig bent en niet samen op n! Ineens aas je met de doelen op dezelfde combinaties en wordt het een stuk spannender. Tegelijkertijd kun je jezelf ook nog regelbeperkingen opleggen om het spannender en moeilijker te maken. Denk bijvoorbeeld aan het niet aan elkaar mogen grenzen van bepaalde leefgebieden en dieren.
Je ziet, de mogelijkheden en keuzes zijn eindeloos. En dat maakt ook waarom ik het zon briljant spel vind. Iedere spelliefhebber kan het naar zijn eigen hand en niveau zetten. Wie denkt dat dit even een simpel spelletjes is, waar je als domino gewoon stukjes aan elkaar legt, komt bedrogen uit. Er zit heel veel diepgang n variatie achter, waarvan ik nu al weet dat het me eindeloos speelplezier gaat bezorgen.
Dit brengt me ook meteen op het punt waar ik me over op loop te vreten. Mijn familie was net zo enthousiast als ik. Enkel mijn zus die liep wat te mopperen tijdens het spel. Ik snap het niet, eigenlijk best wel moeilijk, je moet op zoveel tegelijk letten. Het zal je niet verbazen: mevrouw won dik. Nou is dat niet waar ik zuur over ben. Maar wel over de woorden die volgde op haar winst: Ja, nu heb ik m wel door, eigenlijk is het gewoon Kingdomino met hexagons. Een soort plaatsvervangende woede maakte zich meester van mij. Dit spel op dergelijke manier afschilderen kan echt niet. Het is vloeken in de spelletjeskerk. Het doet dit spel op alle fronten te kort!
Eerlijkheid gebied me te zeggen: ik snap de overeenkomst: je creert verschillende gebieden en verzamelt symbooltjes in gebieden, om gebieden meer waard te laten zijn en je moet uit voorgeselecteerde tegels kiezen. Maar echt lieve mensen, daar houdt de vergelijking echt wel op. Begrijp me niet verkeerd, ik kan ook genieten van een snel potje Kingdomino tussendoor, niets ten nadele van dat spel, maar Cascadia heeft veel meer klasse, mogelijkheden en laten we die ook nog even noemen: een prachtige vormgeving. Het is werkelijk waar een feestje en genot voor je oog als voor je neus een steeds groter natuurgebied de tafel vult. De stijl, het kleurgebruik, de afbeeldingen van de dieren: het is allemaal even prachtig. Hiermee heeft meneer Flynn toch echt wel een droom debuut te pakken als je het mij vraagt.
Ik ben fan! Groot fan!
Eerder geplaatst op: 22-09-2023, met een waardering van: 8/10 sterren
Ttulo: Cascadia - Tile placement goodness
Quem gosta de animais e dos seus ecossistemas, tem aqui o jogo perfeito.
Porque em Cascadia criamos o ecossistema certo para cada animal, sejam eles ursos, raposas, guias, veados ou salmes.
Cascadia tem tambm a grande vantagem de no cansar. J jogmos inmeras partidas e continuamos com vontade de jogar mais.
No que toca  pontuao, embora no seja difcil de apurar,  mais morosa, o que poder desmotivar algumas pessoas. No entanto, na nossa opinio, aqueles minutos extra, valem muito a pena. At porque os resultados so, em regra, renhidos, o que mantm todos em suspenso at  ultima soma!
Falta apenas dizer que Cascadia tambm tem uma ptima jogabilidade para dois jogadores.
Quem gosta de animais e dos seus ecossistemas, tem aqui o jogo perfeito.
Porque em Cascadia criamos o ecossistema certo para cada animal, sejam eles ursos, raposas, guias, veados ou salmes.
Cascadia tem tambm a grande vantagem de no cansar. J jogmos inmeras partidas e continuamos com vontade de jogar mais.
No que toca  pontuao, embora no seja difcil de apurar,  mais morosa, o que poder desmotivar algumas pessoas. No entanto, na nossa opinio, aqueles minutos extra, valem muito a pena. At porque os resultados so, em regra, renhidos, o que mantm todos em suspenso at  ultima soma!
Falta apenas dizer que Cascadia tambm tem uma ptima jogabilidade para dois jogadores e a nossa classificao geral  de 4 dados.
You start with three hexagonal habitat tiles, and on your turn you choose a new tile that's paired with a wildlife token out of the four pairs available.
You place that tile next to your other ones and put the wildlife token on a tile with a matching symbol to the token. Each animal has a different scoring objective so where you place the tokens really matters.
A new random tile and token are drawn and the next player picks their pair. If there are ever 3 or 4 of the same token you can pick new ones at random. Or if you have a nature token you can choose any pair or refresh the tokens.
Negative: apart from what players pick from the tiles and tokens, theres not much player interaction. Youre mainly focused on your own little area.
Sure, you might not be drawing attention to other players when they are at risk but why deny complements for interesting habitat shapes or leading in objective scoring.
The only adaption required is that one really needs to gently rattle the bag at players who fail to refresh the draft before placing their choices in order to keep the turns flowing.
Cheers and good gaming.
Hello! Yes we were referring to there being not very much mechincal player interaction. That's alright! It probably comes down to play style as well, we are often so wrapped up in our out area that we either forget or don't have the mental capacity to factor in what our opponent's are doing. Thank you for your thoughts! Happy gaming
Ttulo: A Breath of Fresh Pacific Northwest Air
: Alderac Entertainment Group (AEG)
: Randy Flynn
: Beth Sobel
: Open Drafting, Pattern Building & Tile Placement
Mr. & Ms. Meeple
Wesley & Elke
We also like the Nature Tokens, which you can use to swap 2 Wildlife Tokens
You do not actually swap tokens. You pick a token and a tile. The others stay where they were.
On your turn, before you select a tile
and token, you may spend a Nature
Token to do one of the following:
1. Take ANY one of the four Habitat
Tiles and ANY one of the four Wildlife
Tokens.
We also like the Nature Tokens, which you can use to swap 2 Wildlife Tokens
You do not actually swap tokens. You pick a token and a tile. The others stay where they were.
On your turn, before you select a tile
and token, you may spend a Nature
Token to do one of the following:
1. Take ANY one of the four Habitat
Tiles and ANY one of the four Wildlife
Tokens.
Oh, nature; you never cease to amaze us. The landscape changes around you  all of a sudden, a hexagonal habitat drops out of the clear sky, sometimes immediately populated by various types of wildlife. Nature works in mysterious ways  except in Cascadia, where you get to play the maker!
Name: Cascadia (2022)
Designer: Randy Flynn
Play type: set collection, tile laying, pattern building, open drafting
During your turn, you draft one of the four habitat/animal combinations and add them to your tableau. Habitats can be placed adjacent to any other tile; animals can only be placed on a tile if their symbol is present on the tile. Some tiles have multiple eligible animals, but only one token can inhabit them. Some tiles only have one animal on them, but these give you a nature token when you place said animal there. You dont have to place the token on the tile you just drafted, but you have to place them immediately. If you cant, you have to forfeit that particular tile or token.
Theme, setting & narrative
How does it play?
I like the addition of nature tokens as an additional source of points, but more importantly, as a way to make sure youre not forced to draft too many unwanted or useless tiles and tokens. There is even a smidge of push-your-luck detectable here; when you are refreshing the market, you never know what you are gonna get  you only can hope it wont be the animals you just replaced (since they dont get added to the bag until after youve refreshed the market).
What you might like
a low enough barrier of entry, but enough interesting decisions to keep you engaged
tactical decisions with just enough uncertainty to prevent becoming a solvable puzzle
balancing between two scoring conditions  animals and habitats
What you might not like
managing the tiles and tokens in the market feels like gaming the system sometimes
If you like my content, please consider buying me a coffee or supporting me on Patreon.
Thats an astute observation  I have that one too, and played it once (1v1), but it seems to have a little more meat on the bone.
Luo harmonisin ekosysteemi tss Pohjois-Amerikan luoteisosan ja Kanadan rajamaiden elimist ja ymprist esittelevss peliss. Luvassa on soljuvaa laattojen asettelua, joka sopii niin perheen kuin harrastajienkin peli-iltaan.
Cascadia on saavuttanut lyhyess ajassa useita lautapelipalkintoja, joista viimeisimpn on arvostettu Spiel des Jahres -palkinto tlt vuodelta. Ja aivan ansaitusti Cascadia on palkintonsa napannut, sill kyllhn tt Beth Sobelin kuvituksen kaunistamaa laattojen asettelua pelaa oikein mielelln.
Cascadiassa siis kukin pelaaja rakentaa omaa maisemaansa elinympristlaatoista ja elinmerkeist. Elinympristlaattoihin on kuvattu viitt eri elinymprist (vuoristo, joki, mets, kosteikko ja preeria) ja samaten elinmerkeiss on viitt eri elinlajia (kettu, karhu, lohi, peura ja haukka).
Alkuvalmistelut tekee ripesti. Pelaajille jaetaan aloituslaatat, elinympristlaattoja otetaan pelaajamrn mukaisesti varantoon ja jokaiselle elinlajille valitaan pisteytyskortti. Lopuksi nelj elinympristlaattaa knnetn nkyviin ja niille nostetaan elinmerkkipussista pariksi elinmerkit. Sittenp peli onkin jo valmis alkamaan.
Vuorollaan pelaaja valitsee yhden tarjolla olevista laatta-elinmerkki -pareista ja asettaa sen omaan maisemaansa. Pelaaja voi asettaa laatan maisemaansa kuten haluaa, vlittmtt samanlaisten elinympristjen jatkuvuudesta. Laatan asettamiseen kannattaa kuitenkin kytt hetki aikaa, sill pelin lopussa jokainen pelaaja saa pisteit suurimmasta yhtenisest elinympriststn kussakin elinympristtyypiss.
Elinympristlaattoihin on kuvitettu lisksi 1-3 elint, joita voi asettaa kyseiselle laatalle. Laatan asettamisen jlkeen pelaaja asettaa samalla vuorolla valitsemansa elinmerkin sopivalle laatalle, jonka ei siis ole pakko olla sama laatta kuin mink pelaaja valitsi kyseisell kierroksella. On mys hyv huomioida, ett kullekin laatalle mahtuu vain yksi elinmerkki. Sitenp jos kierroksella valitulle elinmerkille ei lydy sopivaa laattaa tai pelaaja ei halua kytt sit, elinmerkki palautetaan pussiin. Elinmerkeistkin on tarjolla pisteit, jos niit saa asetettua omaan maisemaansa pelin alussa valittujen pisteytyskorttien mukaisesti, joten elinmerkin asettaminen kannattaa myskin pohtia huolella.
Kun pelaaja on asettanut laatan ja elinmerkin maisemaansa, knnetn varannosta uusi laatta ja elinmerkki valittujen tilalle ja seuraava pelaaja aloittaa vuoronsa. Pelaajamrst riippumatta jokaisella pelaajalla on aina peliss 20 vuoroa aikaa rakentaa omaa maisemaansa ja kerrytt potentiaalista pistesaldoaan. Kun viimeinenkin pelaaja on pelannut 20. vuoronsa, peli pttyy, elinkortit ja suurimmat yhteniset elinympristt pisteytetn ja eniten pisteit kernnyt pelaaja voittaa pelin.
Cascadia on siis varsin suoraviivainen peli ja jokainen vuoro on kytnnss samansisltinen: valitse laatta-elinmerkki -pari ja aseta se maisemaasi. Vaihtelua peliin tuovat pelin alussa elinlajeille valittavat pisteytyskortit. Kullekin elimelle on nelj erilaista pisteytyskorttia, joista yksi valitaan summassa tai pelaajien yhteisptksell kyseiselle pelikerralle. Pisteytyskortti sitten mrittelee, miten kyseisen lajin merkkej kannattaa asettaa maisemaansa, jotta niist saisi pisteit. Ja koska pisteytyskortteja on joka elinlajille tosiaan se nelj kappaletta, erilaisia pisteytyskombinaatioita on jo runsaasti tarjolla.
Cascadia ei ole myskn tysin ryhmpasianssia, vaan muiden pelaajien toimia kannattaa seurata pelin aikana. Suurimmista yhtenisist elinympristist on jaossa lispisteit niille pelaajille, joiden suurimmat elinympristt ovat isoimpia verrattuna muiden pelaajien elinympristihin kussakin elinympristtyypiss. Tm tuo peliin mukavasti pient kilpailuasetelmaa.
Tuurin vaikutusta on pyritty tasoittamaan jonkin verran snniss. Jos pelaajan aloittaessa vuoroaan kaikki tarjolla olevat elinmerkit ovat samaa lajia, ne vaihdetaan uusiin elinmerkkeihin. Jos taas tarjolla olevista elinmerkeist kolme on samaa lajia, pelaaja voi halutessaan vaihdattaa kyseiset elimet uusiin. Molemmissa tilanteissa tarjolla olleet elinmerkit laitetaan syrjn ja pussista nostetaan uudet tilalle.
Lisksi tuuria tasoitetaan pelin aikana ansaittavilla kvyill (peliss nit kutsutaan luontomerkeiksi). Pelaaja voi halutessaan kytt vuorollaan kpyjn, jolloin hn voi valita mink tahansa tarjolla olevista laatoista ja elinmerkeist - niiden ei siis tarvitse olla valmis pari, kuten normaalisti pitisi. Vaihtoehtoisesti pelaaja voi kytt kvyn vaihtaakseen haluamansa mrn elinmerkkej uusiin tai sst ne ja ansaita niist pisteit pelin lopussa.
Niinhn se on, ett Cascadia yksinkertaisesti vaan toimii loistavasti. Se on helppo myyd ja opettaa uusille pelaajille, siin on sislt juuri sopivasti kestoonsa nhden (ja kestokaan ei kauheasti muutu pelaajamrst huolimatta) ja se tuottaa juuri sopivasti pohdittavaa olematta liian kevyt tai liian raskas. Thn menness kaikki, joille olen opettanut Cascadian, ovat tyknneet siit. Yksi ystv jopa pohti ostavansa kopion pelist mys itselleen pelaamisen jlkeen.
Laatikon kyljess mainittu 10+-iksuositus kuulostaa omiin korviin vhn turhan korkealta, sill en ne mitn syyt, miksi esimerkiksi jo 8+-vuotiaat lapset eivt voisi aivan hyvin pelata Cascadiaa keskenn tai aikuisten kanssa ja prjt siin. Tietysti vhemmn pelanneelle lapselle sek elinymprist- ett elinpisteytysten miettiminen ja suunnitteleminen etukteen voi olla haastavaa. Toisaalta, snniss esitelln mys erillinen perhevariantti, jossa elimist saa pisteit lajiryhmittymien suuruuden perusteella ja jossa voi mys jtt pois kilpailun suurimmista yhtenisist elinympristist.
Cascadian pelaamista helpottaa varmasti jatkossa mys pohjoismainen laitos, joka ilmestynee joulukuun puolella. Toivoisinkin, ett Cascadia lytisi tiens mahdollisimman monen perheen pukinkonttiin, sill onhan se vain mainio (perhe)peli! Sinlln Cascadia ei tuo lautapelitarjontaan mitn upouutta tai ennennkemtnt, mutta yhdistelee tuttuja ja mielekkit pelimekaniikkoja luoden sen verran sujuvan ja viihdyttvn kokonaisuuden, ett sit pelaa mielelln. Eik mainitsemani Beth Sobelin kuvitus haittaa yhtn, vaan tekee pelist vielp miellyttvn katsella.
Enp tosiaan keksi erityisesti mitn kritisoitavaa Cascadiasta. Jos nyt aivan rupean nillittmn, niin voisinhan tietysti ihmetell, miten peliss voi olla preerialaatta, jolle voi asettaa vain lohen, sill en pysty ksittmn, miten lohi eleleskelee preerialla.. Okei, ehk pelaajat, joita kiinnostaa lhinn raskaat, pitkt ja monisntiset pelit, eivt aivan hirvesti saisi iloa Cascadiasta. Minulle Cascadia kuitenkin edustaa hienosti nykyaikaista pelisuunnittelua, jossa parhaimmillaan yhdistyy kompakti kokonaisuus kauniiseen ulkokuoreen. Vahva suositus tlt siis Cascadialle!
Ttulo: Why Every Turn in Cascadia Matters
I've never really been what you might call an "impulse buyer." I've made a lot of purchases throughout my life of things that I wanted, and I'd say that at least 95% of them were carefully thought out and well researched beforehand.
The components I think are mostly very well made. The habitat tiles and nature tokens are standard cardboard cutout, but they seem hefty enough that they will survive many plays over without worry of getting bent or starting to split. I will say that the animal tokens, while good in general, do seem to have a small risk of chipping, as the animal images on the wood tokens seem to just be pasted on like a sticker, instead of painted or engraved. I haven't had any actual problems with this yet, but I do worry that after several plays, this could become a problem.
All being said, I think Cascadia is a very worthwhile addition to my collection, and I am looking forward to many many more plays, hoping to unlock new achievements, and really explore everything it has to offer. Overall, I give it 8.5/10.
But I really wanted to comment on this:
...and thinking "oh my God, it's a moose. I'm getting it."
Glad I could make you laugh! Alaska is beautiful but I couldn't imagine living there
Alaska is beautiful but I couldn't imagine living there
Yeah, it's not for everybody. But at least when I lived there, it's advantages far outweighed its disadvantages.
We havent had a Golden Feather winner in quite some time, but Cascadia has done it! This tile-laying, token-drafting spatial puzzle impressed both Travis and me from our very first play. The artwork alone makes it fun to have on the table, and the strategy offered within is what takes it over the top. If you havent had a chance yet to check out Cascadia, get your hands on a copy ASAP. You wont be disappointed. Read on to see why.
Your Wildlife Token will be placed on a Habitat Tile in your environment with these restrictions: the Habitat Tile cannot already have a Wildlife Token on it, and the Habitat Tile you choose must have the matching Wildlife symbol on it. So dont go trying to place Salmon in the mountains or forest! If you are unable to, or choose not to, place your Wildlife Token on your turn, simply return it to the bag. Certain Habitat Tiles are marked and considered Keystone Tiles, and placing a matching Wildlife Token on these will earn you a Nature Token. Nature Tokens can be used to take any pair of Habitat Tile/Wildlife Token during the start of your turn, or can be used to wipe the market and replace it (in case there are no choices you like!). So earning those Nature Tokens comes in handy for sure. At the end of your turn, after you have added your Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token to your environment, refill the market. Draw a face-down Habitat Tile and place it in the market row, and randomly draw a Wildlife Token from the bag to be paired with it. Your turn now ends, and play continues clockwise.
One of my favorites. I keep coming back to it. Played over 150 times and still cannot crack 105.
What is Cascadia?
How to play
After the setup each round will consist of you picking and adding a pair to you tableau. You can add the tile anywhere (terrain types dont have to match) but matching terrain types will benefit you in the end because you can score points for bigger terrains. You can also add the animal token anywhere, as long as the animal is represented on the tile that you pick. If you pick a tile which is meant for a single animal you will receive a nature token (pinecone). This token can be traded in for the opportunity to pick a random tile and animal from the display without them having to be a pair.
How do you play Cascadia solo?
How much time does it take?
By that criteria, I think that it absolutely deserves the award.
But first, Cascadia itself. Set in Northwest America, Cascadia is, in essence, two tile-laying puzzles in one.
The first is comprised of five geographical elements that make up Northwest America. Each hexagon has either one or two ecosystems and players lay a tile one by one, in an effort to build the largest of each of the six terrains.
Salmon and Foxes and Bears. Oh My!
Players choose a pair, place a token, and turn goes to the next player.
Rinse, lather, repeat.
Sum up the score when everyone has placed 20 tiles and tokens. Thats it.
There is tension. You see a pair that you desperately want, you have a place for both, but you have to wait until your turn, hoping that someone doesnt take that very pair. That waiting anticipation is always fun.
There is strategy. From the beginning, its usually pretty obvious which animals are high scoring ones and which are lowest (looking at you Fox). This leads to one of two situations. Either everyone will be gunning for the very same animal, creating a low supply/high demand for that particular animal or that animal refuses to show up when the market is replenished. Meaning you have a choice of either going for that really popular one, or continuously taking the foxes and gain points by sheer volume.
One Elk to Rule Them All
In an odd way, Cascadia is too forgiving. Besides the score, there is no compelling reason to make a certain move. On one hand, there is the refreshing sense of freedom of doing whatever you want to do and then see how you did. On the other, theres no reward either save for Keystone tiles. These are tiles with only one animal possibility which, when fulfilled, gives you a singular pine cone that either manipulates the market or is worth points at the end.
When playing Calico, you get rewarded along the way as you play. Complete three colors, get a button. Complete a pattern, get a cat. Then there is the other side of the coin, where you have the excruciating feeling that you are not going to be able to complete all objectives, and so you fill in the space with something else, closing off that scoring possibility.
Cascadia doesnt have that coin.
I realize this is an odd criticism. Its like going to Yosemite National Park and complaining there are no rollercoasters.
Cascadia made no promise to provide such an experience. Considering the setting, it would oddly feel out of place if it did.
But it would still be nice to earn something along the way. A little reward that lets you know when you get the fourth elk, or successfully join two ecosystems, that youre doing well. Instead of only counting the points at the very end.
Sometimes, when you go someplace new, you just want to be able sit back and enjoy the scenery.
The first is comprised of six geographical elements that make up Northwest America.
Mountains, Forests, Prairies, Wetlands, and Rivers. I don't believe there is a sixth type.
James R. Gracen
The first is comprised of six geographical elements that make up Northwest America.
Mountains, Forests, Prairies, Wetlands, and Rivers. I don't believe there is a sixth type.
You are totally correct. Typo. Thank you for pointing it out. Its now been fixed.
Same here. Played once with my family (several times with other players), no one has asked to play it again. Which is disappointing because I had high hopes.
Rulebook and Setup
On a turn, the player chooses one habitat tile as well as the corresponding animal token under it, and places it in their ecosystem they are building. Once placed, the tile and the token is replaced and the turn moves to the next player. Rinse and repeat till you have completed 20 rounds (at which you will be out of habitat tiles to refill the row) and you are done. There are a few instances where you can modify what is in the row, but this goes quick enough, and you are right back into the action. These instances will mainly revolve around when you choose to spend a pinecone token, which you are rewarded when you place an animal token in a Keystone habitat. Basically, these habitat tiles only have one individual type of animal that can be placed and are only ever made up of one habitat type. When you spend a pinecone token, you can choose one habitat tile and one animal token from the row, no matter if they are paired together. This gives you some leeway when you really need a certain animal to meet an objective, but really do not need the habitat tile it is paired with. Other instances include when too many of the same animal species tokens appear in the row (called Overpopulation) and they must be replaced with a new draw from the bag.
My biggest complaint is that there just isnt a lot of interaction between players. Yes, one of the main mechanics is open drafting tiles so there is always a chance that you take a tile your opponent needs but I find that its rare that you get stuck with a set of tiles that wont somehow work into your environment. Most of my play throughs against an opponent, Ive never once even glanced at their side of the table as it just doesnt have any bearing on what Im doing.
Rulebook - 5
Setup - 5
Components - 3
Art/Graphic Design - 4
Overall Satisfaction (Solo) - 8.3
Overall Satisfaction (Multiplayer) - 8.0
Thanks for reading! My wife also feels underwhelmed by this and I thought she would love it.
Thanks for the comment, David. We also own Kingdomino but I've never felt the need to play it over Cascadia.
I think that's the beauty of this hobby though. We all have our own unique tastes but can still be a part of a greater community!
Thanks for the comment, David. We also own Kingdomino but I've never felt the need to play it over Cascadia.
I think that's the beauty of this hobby though. We all have our own unique tastes but can still be a part of a greater community!
Exactly. I own Kingdomino. Played it a couple times... But, Cascadia has been a hit! Much more fun. I don't see myself going back to Kingdomino very often (if at all) now that I own Cascadia. The combination of tile drafting to bump your Habitat Scoring combined with the token drafting to bump your Wildlife Scoring opportunities is a lot of fun. sometimes you need to take one, to the detriment of the other, based on what the other players at the table are doing. For instance, if I see an opponent trying to outscore me on River tiles, I may take an available River tile, even though I don't necessarily want the Wildlife token it comes with (or else be forced to spend a Nature Token, which is a guaranteed point, to grab a different Wildlife token instead).
Production rating 3.5/5
Our only slight drawback is that certain wildlife tokens, for our liking, were a little garish for the otherwise muted colour pallet.
Complexity weight: very light / light / medium / heavy / very heavy
The basic premise of Cascadia could barely be more simple: pick a habitat tile & animal token to add to your existing wilderness, matching them as best you can to what is already there.
Certain placements will earn you a Nature token which can be used to modify your turn somewhat. They allow you to pick any desired combination of tokens on display, rather than the fixed pairings of a standard turn; or even to reset the available animal selection altogether. Too many salmon for your liking? Spend that token and see if any hawks turn up instead.
Does it respect your time?
Absolutely. Setup couldnt be quicker, simply placing the first 4 tiles and tokens next to the scoring cards.
Final rating 4/5 (Fun value for your money)
- The theme wont be to everyones taste but if the box art catches your eye, youll likely enjoy it. Those that suffer from Analysis Paralysis may struggle to enjoy this unless they accept that you cant have it all, theres no perfect choice each round!
Thanks for reading!
Image Courtesy of W Eric Martin
Play Time: 30-45 minutes (20-25 minutes solo)
Number of Players: 1 - 4
Components  Excellent
Artist(s)  Beth Sobel
Release  2021
Awards  Spiel des Jahres (2022)
Overview and Theme
Cascadia does show a love for the subject matter and I think that is great.
Sandy, pass me my hiking shoesits the great, wonderful wilderness for us today! Coooo-ee
Starting Player Tiles  These tiles are larger than those used throughout the play. Effectively these are a one-piece tile made up of 3 regular sized tiles.
Each Starting Tile will always feature all 6 of the habitat types (in various configurations) and each one will always feature a Keystone Habitat (a region made up of one Habitat only).
Image Courtesy of SergiNS
These features come in all kinds of combinations across the tiles and the Starting Tiles above are no exception.
Each habitat type is well illustrated and specific colours are replicated to make it quite clear what each tile features. Likewise, the animals are all associated with a specific colour - pink for salmon, orange for foxes etc.
Image Courtesy of Tania_Larina
Animal Tokens  The other major component are the animal Tiles. These are lovely wooden discs that feature a single animal icon and they are coloured to match the icons that feature on the tiles.
Image Courtesy of henk.rolleman
Nature Tokens  Smaller tokens in the shape of pinecones are provided. These are nice enough and the shape is certainly more interesting than a generic round token. Enough said.
Image Courtesy of Kicurek
These cards are large (almost Tarot-sized) in nature and each one features a large illustration of the animal in question. Each card even has 4 pieces of unique art for a given animal and Beth Sobel does a lovely job of illustrating the 5 creatures.
The bottom of each card is then dedicated to the business at hand - how that animal will score. This is done using a combination of three elements - an icon-based graphic, a scoring table and some clarifying text at the bottom of the card.
Even the card-backs are lovely, featuring each animals full name (such as the Red-Tailed Hawk) and a silhouette illustration.
The cards all feature a matte-linen finish and they feel lovely in one's hand.
Image Courtesy of tabletopmom
Scoring Pad  A 7-Wonders  styled scorepad is provided with the top half being dedicated to Animal scoring and the bottom half to Habitat scoring.
The score pad is also double-sided and I still have a heap of them after so many plays already, which is great.
Image Courtesy of Chotacabras
Hey look, my high school geography finally came back to me!
Image Courtesy of Tania_Larina
Rules and Family Scoring Card  The rules are well laid out and the text is well spaced, with graphical illustrations throughout.
Image Courtesy of SergiNS
I have no doubt that Cascadia would not have enjoyed as much success without some of the little touches that crowdfunding made possible, not to mention that it might also make the company enough money to remain a going concern. I mean, following up Calico  with Cascadia is a great track record so far and I look forward to seeing what they come up with next (Verdant if Im not mistaken).
Image Courtesy of tabletopmom
2-Players  Remove 42 (Play with 43)
3-Players  Remove 22 (Play with 63)
4-Players  Remove 2 (Play with 83)
So as you can see, there will always be a little variability in the tile set on offer. Tiles can be selected by placing them all face-down on the table and then picking out the required number to remove and placing them back in the box, sight unseen. The tiles left for play are then placed into a few face-down stacks.
Four Habitat Tiles should then be drawn from the stacks and placed face-up in the centre of the table to form a row.
The Nature Tokens are simply placed in a pile. Each player then receives a Starter Habitat Tile at random.
Image Courtesy of kalchio
Select a Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token  The first decision required of a player on their turn is to select one pair of offerings. In many cases the player has no choice but to take a pair (Habitat Tile and Animal Token) that are matched. Their decision will be driven by a combination of the scoring rules in play and what they have already built within their play area.
NB  If a player has a Nature Token in their possession, they can spend one at this moment to give them greater flexibility of choice. The nature Token is returned to the supply and the active player can take any combination of Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token, not just those that are paired to each other.
Place Habitat and Wildlife  The active player is now tasked with placing their tile and the wildlife token they acquired. The only rule of note regarding tile placement is that each tile must connect to at least one other tile, along at least one edge. Of course the players will be trying to create regions of matching terrain for scoring purposes but Ill cover that in a short while.
Wildlife is a bit more restrictive in that they can only be placed on a Habitat Tile that features the matching animal icon. Each Habitat Tile can only hold a single Wildlife Token and once placed animal tokens cannot be moved in any way. If a player cannot place a Wildlife Token because they do not have an open Habitat Tile (or they do not wish to place it), the token is returned to the Cloth Bag. This is sub-optimal and not recommended.
Earning a Nature Token  If a player manages to place a Wildlife Token onto a keystone habitat (a Habitat Tile that only features the one type of terrain and will only take a specific animal), they earn a Nature Token. These tokens give a player greater flexibility as they allow a Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token to be taken regardless of their position in the row. Ahaflexibility!
Replace the Offerings  With the completion of those two simple actions a players turn is over. A new Habitat Tile should be flipped over to return the offering to 4 tiles in all and a new Wildlife Token is drawn from the bag and placed against the newly drawn tile. Of course if a Nature Token was used, the replacement of Tile or Token will be against the location at which they were taken.
That is Cascadia in a nutshellerrpinecone.
Image Courtesy of henk.rolleman
Design Balance  Its worth mentioning that Cascadia has some nice design elements that help balance the pros and cons when selecting tiles and animal tokens.
For these reasons, Keystone Habitat Tiles give with one hand and restrict with the other. Kudos to the designers for introducing this simple but important element.
A Theme That Isnt Lip Service  Its also worth mentioning how great it is to see a theme being used and integrated into the design rather than just being slapped on top of the box cover. Cascadia is more than an excuse for the artwork - including elements such as Habitat Corridors, biodiversity, Keystone Habitats and 5 gorgeous species from the area.
I'm not saying you are living the theme here...you won't feel like a hiker with every turn, but the importance of nature and the beauty of it does come through.
Image Courtesy of MarcoValada
The industry has now, more or less, adopted 'solo modes' as a standard feature in most designs. I for one like these additions, but it is still true that some are no more than afterthoughts, whilst others are compelling.
After a player has taken their turn, they must discard the Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token that are to the far-right of the selection row. This means the player knows what will be lost to them when they make their selection and they have to weigh up how important a loss those elements will be in comparison to what they select. In effect the solo mode offers up a new decision space that as players we don't tend to focus on as much in the multiplayer format (we tend to take the best selection we can at the time and see what is on offer next time, as many things may change). Two new tiles and tokens are then placed to the left of the selection row to return the offering to 4 sets of options.
The scoring is also slightly different for Habitats (animals are still determined by the Scoring Cards in play). A point is still earned for every tile in the player's largest Habitat Corridor of each terrain, but 2 bonus points are earned if a habitat contains 7 or more connected tiles, rewarding a player that shoots for a couple of big regions.
But solo modes that are a 'beat your own score' affair never live long in the memory. Thankfully...
In brief...
Scenario Challenges  These are a collection of 15 objectives that outline the exact Scoring Cards to use for each of the animals. In addition a challenge might set a series of goals such as a total score that must be reached or how many points must be earned from certain animals of habitats.
These can be played in multiplayer or solo mode.
Examples include - 'Habitat Corridors must be at least 5 tiles in size to score' and 'It takes 2 Nature Tokens in order to take a Nature Token Action'.
Image Courtesy of henk.rolleman
The Final Word
Thankfully Cascadia and Calico are quite different in feel and execution. That said, I still have room for both in my collection and Calico has grown on me again in recent times. As I approach 40-50 plays of Cascadia I am still enjoying what it has to offer.
So whats left to say?
Til next we meet, may your Elks run free and the Salmon survive their run!
EDIT - Added SdJ Award for 2022
Thanks for reading Cindy.
Thank you again for the thoughts and we can't wait for you to try Verdant!
Thank you again for the thoughts and we can't wait for you to try Verdant!
The one miss-step that was made is the lack of a clear defining border on some of the terrain edges, with mountains and rivers perhaps being the worst culprits.
EDIT - Cascadia wins the Spiel des Jahres for 2022 - Added this credit.
Ttulo: Picturesque Pandering Produces Pleasing Puzzles
I understand these thoughts, and I can sympathize. But after playing more than twenty times, I feel confident in thinking there are some hidden depths here behind the pretty face.
What elevates Cascadia beyond its peers, in my estimation, is the packet drafting. Each turn, you have to choose a pair of one terrain tile and one animal, and you can't mix and match. The pairs come out randomly, refilling the draft choices once a player chooses a pair, and you're stuck with what you get. It doesn't matter that the tile you want isn't paired with the animal you want. You have to choose a pair, and you make do with what you get.
By placing this fox on its keystone tile, I get a nature token that will help me later on.
Cascadia comes with a handy score sheet. (And, as you can see in the last column, I just made the 85-point goal for the scenario. Whew!)
Begib dich auf eine Reise in den pazifischen Nordwesten, in die Region Cascadia, welche sich vom Westen Nord-Amerikas bis hin in die Provinzen von Kanada erstreckt. Kannst du die Ahornwlder riechen, den frischen Wind der Berge spren oder in freier Wildbahn vielleicht einen Bren sichten? Tauche ein in die wunderschne Natur von Cascadia, einem Spiel von AEG.
In Cascadia formen die Spieler eine abwechslungsreiche Natur & besiedeln diese mit passenden Wildtieren. In Form von unterschiedlichsten Landschaftsplttchen puzzeln wir eine Umwelt, um diese dann mit den dazugehrigen Tieren zu beleben. Ein Plttchenlege-Spiel mit Drafting-Elementen und Puzzelgefhl.
Nach dem Aufbau wird das Spiel im Uhrzeigersinn, beginnend mit dem Startspieler gespielt. Der aktive Spieler sucht sich aus der Auslage in der Mitte ein Landschaftsplttchen sowie den darunter liegenden Wildtiertoken aus.
Anschlieend legt der/die Spieler*in das gewhlte Landschaftsplttchen an seine bereits ausliegende Landschaft bzw. sein persnliches Startplttchen an. Hierbei ist man vllig frei in der Platzierung des Plttchens, lediglich muss es an mindestens ein anderes Plttchen einer bereits ausliegenden Landschaft angrenzen. Natrlich empfiehlt sich beim Auslegen der Landschaft eine gewisse Vorgehensweise, da am Spielende Punkte fr die grte Landschaft jeder Art vergeben werden. Insofern versuchen die Spieler*innen zusammenhngende Landschaften gleichen Typs zu formen. Fnf unterschiedliche Landschaftsarten stehen uns hierbei zur Verfgung.
Nach dem Legen des Landschaftsplttchens kann der Spieler nun den Wildtiertoken, welchen er/sie zusammen mit dem Landschaftsplttchen aus der Mitte genommen hat, in seiner Natur platzieren. Dazu kann er ein Landschaftsplttchen frei whlen, auf welchem die jeweilige Tierart abgebildet ist. Auch hier versuchen die Spieler*innen bestimmte Vorgaben zu erfllen, welche in Form von Aufgabenkarten offen fr alle ersichtlich in der Mitte ausliegen und somit ebenfalls Punkte einbringen.
So mchten z.B. Bren gern Paarweise nebeneinanderliegen, Wildadler hingegen sind eher Einzelgnger und mchten somit gern das einzige Tier ihrer Art im Umkreis bleiben um Punkte zu generieren.
Im Anschluss wird das entfernte Landschaftsplttchen sowie der Tiertoken zufllig wieder aufgefllt & der/die nchste Spieler*in ist an der Reihe.
Das Spiel endet, sobald kein Landschaftsplttchen am Ende eines Spielerzuges mehr nachgelegt werden kann.
Nun werden Punkte verteilt fr:
die Erfllung der jeweiligen Tierauftragskarten
Die grten Naturgebiete der jeweiligen Art des Spieler/der Spielerin
Bonuspunkte fr den Spieler*in mit dem grten Naturgebiet der jeweiligen Art
Fr ungenutzte Naturtokens (Tannenzapfen), welche im Spiel eingesetzt werden knnen, um bei der Auslage flexibel whlen zu knnen
Der Spieler/ die Spielerin mit den meisten Punkten gewinnt natrlich!
Zunchst sei gesagt, dass Cascadia wunderschn anzuschauen ist! Das Artwork insbesondere der Auftragskarten ist fantastisch, ebenso wie der Rest des Spielmaterials.
Thematisch hatte mich das Spiel direkt erreicht, da ich das Puzzeln der Landschaft sowie das zuordnen der Tiere in ihre Lebensrume einfach schn umgesetzt und spannend finde. Die Regeln sind simpel und schnell erklrt und einem schnellen Start steht somit nichts im Wege, somit lsst es sich zgig auf den Tisch bringen und flott runterspielen. Der Spielfluss ist angenehm und lange Wartezeiten bis zum nchsten Zug bleiben nahezu aus.
Die allgemeinen Auftragskarten sind gut ausbalanciert und auch thematisch fgen diese sich sehr gut ins Spiel ein. So mchten z.b. die Elche in einer Herde leben, der Fuchs ist gern von unterschiedlichen Tierarten umgeben und die Fische schwimmen gern in einer fortlaufenden Reihe. Das Anordnen der Tiere in der eigenen Landschaft ist somit herausfordernd und macht einfach Laune.
Auch das Formen der Landschaft aus den unterschiedlichsten Plttchen bringt ein tolles Puzzle-Element in dieses Spiel, zudem man auch stets die Landschaften der Mitspieler im Auge behalten sollte bezglich der Gre ihrer Landschaftstypen.
Zustzlich lsst sich der Schwierigkeitsgrad unterschiedlich gestalten bzw. steigern, in Form von weiteren Auftragskarten. Dadurch sind weitere Herausforderungen und Abwechslung bezogen auf die Anordnung der Tiere geboten.
Die Auswertung am Enden des Spiels ist spannend und bis zum Schluss kann mitgefiebert werden.
Bei uns kam Cascadia bereits hufig auf den Tisch in unterschiedlichsten Runden und wird dies sicherlich auch weiterhin tun. Ob mit Vielspielern, Gelegenheitsspielern aber auch Nichtspielern, waren es jedesmal tolle Spielrunden & jede/r Mitspieler*in hatte seine Freude an Cascadia. Da Cascadia sehr zugnglich und simpel ist, lsst es sich auch mit smtlichen Altersklassen gut spielen und eignet sich hervorragend als Familienspiel.
Hiermit spreche ich eine klare Empfehlung fr Cascadia aus! Ein Spiel welches aus meiner Sicht in die Spielesammlung gehrt. Auch die Nominierung zum Spiel des Jahres 2022 (in der Ausgabe von Kosmos) unterstreicht meinen uerst positiven Eindruck zu diesem rundum gelungenen Plttchenlege-Spiel.
Insbesondere Fans von Calico, Llama Land und anderen Puzzle-Spielen drften mit Cascadia ihre pure Freude haben.
Ich jedenfalls drcke fest die Daumen fr die Verleihung zum Spiel des Jahres 2022 und wnsche diesem Titel den Sieg.
On a side note in both the pictures you posted I noticed both players elk groups are oriented in a straight line as depicted on the scoring card, just wanted to drop a friendly reminder that that isn't required. It can be a line in any orientation (so either the way you have it or a diagonal line).
Ha! Thanks for that, I don't think we were aware of that!!!
not entirely sure I fully understand your post, hence some clarification requested here.
With this particular Elk scoring card (A), a straight line is required. They can be horizontal or diagonal from a viewer's perspective as long as it's 1 line. A line with a kink in it, would then become 2 straight lines.
In picture 1 it would be 2 x 3 scored.
Is this what you were also saying? Or was it different.
J.
If you look at pictures 1 and 2 it seems Pedro and his opponent thought that you could only place elk in a horizontal line. I figured this because the elk/environment placement is sub-optimal. Both players could have kept their mountains connected and scored their elk if they knew they could go diagonal.
You are correct a line with a kink in it would be seperate scoring lines, also correct that picture one would be 2x3.
Weitere Inhalte gibt es auf meinem Blog:
Worum geht es?
Rein thematisch bewegen wir uns in Kaskadien, einem Gebiet im Nordwesten des nordamerikanischen Kontinents. Kaskadien erstreckt sich von Kanada bis hin nach Washington und Oregon in die USA und bezeichnet das Gebiet hinter der Kaskadenkette, einem Vulkangebirge, dass sich entlang der Kstenlinie bewegt. Die Region zeichnet sich durch eine reiche Flora und Fauna aus und genau um die Fauna geht es in diesem Spiel. Nein, natrlich nicht, die Spieler*innen mssen in Cascadia nur kleine Tierchips auf die richtigen Gebietsplttchen legen, um jede Menge Punkte zu verdienen. Das Thema ist wie so hufig total egal. Wer am Ende sowohl die Tierplttchen nach ihren Vorgaben am besten platziert hat, als auch die grten Gebiete aus den Gebietsplttchen gebaut hat, wird gewinnen.
Wie luft das ab?
Wie sich das fr ein potentielles Spiel des Jahres gehrt, sind sowohl der Spielaufbau, als auch die Spieldurchfhrung recht simpel und durchaus schnell erledigt. Cascadia besteht nur aus recht wenig verschiedenen Spielmaterialien. Zum einen wren da die schon erwhnten Gebietsplttchen in sechseckform. Fnf verschiedene Gebiete (Gebirge, Wald, Fluss, Prrie und Feuchtgebiet) werden auf ihnen dargestellt, viele zeigen auch mehrere Gebiete. Insgesamt gibt es 85 dieser Gebietsplttchen und neben der Gelndeform sind auch immer noch ein bis drei der fnf Tiersorten (Rotfchse, Grizzly Bren, Knigslachse, Wapiti Hirsche und Rotschwanzbussarde) auf ihnen abgebildet. Die Plttchen die nur ein Gebiet zeigen besitzen zustzlich noch ein Zapfensymbol. Als Startgebiete gibt es noch fnf unterschiedliche aus drei Plttchen zusammenhngende Gebiete.
Neben den Gebietsplttchen existieren auch noch 100 hlzerne Tierchips fr die fnf Tierarten des Spiels. Jedes Tier kommt so auf zwanzig Chips, die alle in den mitgelieferten grnen Stoffbeutel durchgemischt werden. Ansonsten gibt es nur noch 25 Zapfenplttchen, die als Vorrat bereitgelegt werden, einen Wertungsblock fr das Spielende, sowie fr jede Tiersorte vier Wertungskarten plus eine Wertungskarte fr ein vereinfachtes Spiel. Mehr Material braucht es fr Cascadia gar nicht.
Der Spielaufbau hngt in punkto der Gebietsplttchen von der Spieler*innenanzahl ab. Insgesamt kann mit bis zu vier Personen gespielt werden und fr das Spiel werden pro Spieler*in 20 Plttchen bentigt und am Ende noch drei weitere hinzugefgt. Das heisst, das die anderen zufllig entfernt werden und der Rest wird verdeckt gemischt und in Stapeln bereitgelegt. Die Spieler*innen einigen sich auf die benutzen Wertungskarten oder whlen sie zufllig aus. Wichtig ist nur, das pro Tierart eine Karte mitspielt. Fr die Erstpartie mit den normalen Regeln wird der Kartensatz A empfohlen. Fr ein Spiel mit vereinfachter Wertung werden die einzelnen Tierkarten aber gar nicht bentigt. Fr diesen Zweck liegt eine weitere einzelne Wertungskarte bereit. Nachdem klar ist, wie dies Spieler*innen am Ende des Spiels werten, legen alle ihre Startplttchen vor sich aus und eine Auslage aus vier Paaren Gebiets- und Tierplttchen wird gebildet. Es muss immer klar erkennbar sein, welches Tierplttchen zu welchem Gebietsplttchen gehrt. Dann kann losgespielt werden.
Ein Spielzug ist denkbar einfach und besteht aus vier simplen Schritten. Zunchst wird die Auslage auf berbevlkerung berprft und das bedeutet nichts anderes als das geschaut wird, ob drei oder vier gleiche Tierplttchen ausliegen. Liegen vier gleiche Tiere in der Auslage mssen sie ausgetauscht werden und es werden vier neue Tiere aus dem Beutel gezogen. Bei drei gleichen Tieren darf getauscht werden. Es besteht aber kein Zwang. Dann muss eine Kombination aus beiden Plttchen genommen werden. Es drfen immer nur zusammengehrige Paare gewhlt werden. Nur ber einen eingesetzten Zapfen ist es mglich eine Kombination aus nicht zusammengehrenden Plttchen zu whlen. Auerdem ist es fr den Einsatz eines Zapfens auch mglich beliebig viele Tierplttchen durch neue austauschen zu lassen. Anschlieend werden beide Plttchen in den Spielbereich eingebaut. Gebietsplttchen knnen immer irgendwo angelegt werden. Es muss nicht passend Gebiet an gleiches Gebiet gelegt werden, je grer die Gebiete einer Gebietssorte, desto besser aber fr die Wertung.
Die Tierplttchen drfen aber immer nur auf Gebietsplttchen gelegt werden, auf denen die Tierart auch abgebildet ist. Sollte das nicht mglich sein, wandert das Plttchen zurck in den Beutel. Wird ein Plttchen mit Zapfensymbol belegt, so erhlt der- oder diejenige ein Plttchen aus dem Vorrat und kann dieses spter wie beschrieben einsetzen. Danach wird nur noch die Auslage wieder aufgefllt und der oder die nchste Spieler*in ist an der Reihe. Das geht solange genauso um den Tisch, bis jeder zwanzig mal eine Plttchenkombination gewhlt hat und dann ist das Spiel passender Weise, wenn die Auslage nicht mehr mit Gebietsplttchen aufegefllt werden kann, zu Ende.
Wie knnen wir also Punkten? Zunchst gibt es Punkte fr die Tierwertungskarten, die uns fr jede der fnf Tiersorten verrt, wie gepunktet wird. Gehen wir doch den A-Satz kurz einmal durch. Die Grizzlys wollen Paare bilden ohne das auf Nachbarfeldern weitere Grizzlys rumlungern. Je mehr Paare wir in unserem Gebiet unterbringen knnen desto mehr Punkte. Wapitis wollen Reihen in unserer Auslage bilden. Ein Tier kann dabei aber immer nur Teil einer Reihe sein. Je nach Lnge von ein bis vier Tieren gibt es mehr Punkte. Lachse wollen gern in einer zusammenhngenden Kette in deinem Gebiet verbringen. Je nach Lnge von bis zu sieben Tieren gibt es mehr Punkte. Die Bussarde sind Einzelgnger und wollen direkt um sich herum keine weiteren Bussarde. Je mehr Bussarde in unserer Auslage, desto mehr Punkte. Zu guter letzt noch die Fchse, die sehr gesellig sind und gerne soviele verschiedene Tiere wie mglich um sich herum scharen. Auch hier gilt je mehr verschiedene, desto mehr Punkte. Genau aus der Kombination dieser Wertungsbedingungen erzielt das Spiel seine Schwierigkeit. Nach den Tieren sind aber noch die Gebiete dran und hier ist es ganz einfach. Wir erhalten einen Punkt fr jedes Teil eines zusammenhngenden Gebiets jeder Sorte. Sollte unser Gebiet dann sogar noch das grte oder zweitgrte (nicht bei zwei Spielern natrlich) am Tisch sein erhalten wir noch Bonuspunkte. Auch briggebliebene Zapfen bringen je einen Punkt.
Fr Spieler*innen denen das zu kompliziert ist, gibt es noch eine vereinfachte Wertung, bei der Gruppen gleicher Tierarten einfach Punkte bringen. Auch ein Solomodus ist entahlten, der sehr vielfltige Mglichkeiten bietet und auch fr eine Kampagen mit einer Gruppe geeignet ist, die Lust haben das letzte aus Cascadia herauszuholen.
Cascadia ist in seiner Einfachheit und Eleganz ganz groes Kino und hievt ganz nebenbei eine weitere Ebene in das Legespieleinerlei. Bei Cascadia mssen sich die Spieler*innen mit einem zweilagigen Legespiel auseinandersetzen. Es reicht nicht nur Plttchen zu legen, sondern auf diese auch noch Tierplttchen obendarauf. Whrend die unteren das Fundament durch eine im Prinzip simple Mehrheitenmechanik am Schluss bilden, kommt durch die Tiere mit ihren je nach Partie speziellen Punktevorgaben, der ntige Tiefgang in das Spiel. beides funktioniert nur gut im Einklang, denn die Voraussetzungen fr die Tiere wird ja bereits mit den Gebietsplttchen gesetzt. Die Spieler*innen haben doch recht viel abzuwgen, aber, und hier komme ich nun auf den Vergleich mit Calico zu sprechen, Cascadia schrnkt einen mit zunehmender Spieldauer nicht ein, sondern weitet sich immer mehr. Whrend Calico ein sehr dichtes und immer zuschnrrenderes Erlebnis wird und am Ende kaum noch Mglichkeiten fr gute Zge berbleiben, weil alles so eingeschrnkt ist, ist Cascadia eher das Spiel der Mglichkeiten. berall knnen weitere Gelndeplttchen angelegt werden und bieten weitere Mglichkeiten fr die Tiere. Wir knnen einfach immer etwas sinnvolles mit unseren Plttchen machen, wenn wir nicht komplett verpeilt sind und uns selber zu sehr einschrnken.
All das macht Cascadia auch fr Anfger*innen und Wenigspieler*innen zu einem beherrschbaren, super vonderhandgehenden Spiel, dass fr mich in der letzten Zeit Seinesgleichen sucht. Eine hnlich simple, doch fordernde und elegante Spielerfahrung hatte ich zuletzt gefhlt mit dem ersten Azul. Es macht optisch auf dem Tisch natrlich nicht ganz soviel her, aber spielerisch gefllt es mir tatschlich noch einen Ticken besser. Auch fr etwas mehr Abwechslung ist bei Cascadia gesorgt. Die Kombination der verschiedenen Wertungskarten sorgt fr gengend Abwechslung und auch die fr die Kampagne angedachten Spielmodi bringen fr Fans des Spiels erstmal genug Spielfutter mit.
Leute die Legespiele mgen, werden Cascadia und seine Eleganz lieben. Vielspieler*innen, die eine gewisse Komplexitt erwarten, werden hier ebenfalls mit spannenden Punktemglichkeiten abgeholt. Auch Gelegenheitsspieler*innen drfte Cascadia gefallen, weil es keine hohen Ansprche an seine Spieler*innen stellt, aber dennoch gut zu unterhalten weiss. Ich empfehle Cascadia uneingeschrnkt und sehe es definitv als einen der drei Nominierungskandidaten fr das Spiel des Jahres 2022 an.
Autor(en): Randy Flynn
Illustrator(en): Beth Sobel
Spieleranzahl: 1  4 Spieler
Dauer: 30  45 Minuten
Weitere Inhalte gibt es auf meinem Blog:
The decisions here are also engaging, you must balance the rewards you get for contiguous habitats with the need to arrange wildlife for maximum reward according to the scoring cards. Sometimes you must sacrifice one to satisfy the other. When my kids can somehow fit the pieces of their nature puzzle together just so, they often admire their handy work pointing out where they have been able to snag maximum points for a certain animal group.
I know its whats in the box that matters most, but a gorgeous box doesnt hurt. I think the art on the box by Beth Sobel looks amazing. The quality of the artwork continues in the scoring cards which look stunning.
The habitat tiles and wooden wildlife tokens are nice and chunky. They feel like they will last nicely over time. On the table once your habitat is built out it looks quite impressive to see it coming together. All in all, a great job on the components.
It wont necessarily make sense thematically, the patterns of tiles and animals you are creating are purely abstract. However, if you do want a bit more context to the backdrop, the rule book has some nice background explaining the Cascadia area and wildlife.
Is Cascadia easy to learn? Very easy to learn and includes a simplified family variant, although we didnt need it to learn how to play.
-Very easy to learn with dedicated family scoring variant to help younger kids learn to play
-A little luck involved in the random tile and wildlife token draws but this can be mitigated to an extent with nature tokens
-Not a lot in the way of player interaction which may not suit some people.
Multiplayer solitaire gets a bad rap. Some folks use the phrase as an insult. But the truth is that sometimes I want to interact with my friends directly and other times I want to sit alongside them, maybe chatting, maybe sharing snacks, while playing in parallel without the pressures of competition.
Cascadia, designed by Randy Flynn and beautifully illustrated by Beth Sobel, is multiplayer solitaire to its core. So much so that its best descriptor is sleepy. And not necessarily in a bad way.
Cascadia does many things weve seen before. A cynic might point out that it doesnt have a novel bone in its body. Run down the checklist of modern multiplayer solitaire design and it ticks all the boxes. Hexes arranged to create a landscape, check. Light drafting, check. Discs drawn from a bag, check. Scoring criteria aplenty, check. Individual scores that break one hundred, check. The absence of negative interaction, or even positive interaction, check.
Its pleasant, in a drowsy sort of way, like lounging on the couch when the sun butters you through the window, or when a long drive along an empty highway sends you edging toward the rumble strips. Also like those dueling scenarios, its reliability hinges entirely on whether sleep seems desirable right now. One of my plays was perfectly relaxing, blunting the edge of a long and strenuous week, similar to the easing pleasure my mother finds in repetitive tasks like stitching or puzzling. Another play was almost the exact opposite. We came to the table looking to think, to vie, to take in steam. The sluggishness made a poor companion, leaving us listless and constantly inquiring whose turn it was.
Thats all right. As much as I suspect Ill never play it again, I dont mind having gotten out of my head for a minute. Whether tranquil or tranquilizer, theres something to appreciate in the occasional calmative.
...like lounging on the couch when the sun butters you through the window...
"when the sun butters you..." ???
Gawd, I love your way with words!
And oh, BTW... some people find that cussing at the sister-in-law is player interaction!
Gawd, I love your way with words!
...like lounging on the couch when the sun butters you through the window...
"when the sun butters you..." ???
That means makes you sweat, right?
...like lounging on the couch when the sun butters you through the window...
"when the sun butters you..." ???
That means makes you sweat, right?
Yes, but deliciously.
Well, for some odd reason this tweak fixed it for me. Instead of the solo rules I played two-handed, trying to get as high a score as possible on both layouts.
I invited my husband to play with me, as he enjoys A Gentle Rain. But he's getting vague in his old age and said the rules on this one were too hard. So I played both sides and found it more engaging than the solo rules.
If any of this resonates with you, then join me on a journey. Let me take you to a mythical, faraway land. To a place called...
The Pacific Northwest.
And then place the tile wherever you want and the animal into a qualifying habitat.
You can get little tokens that give you some flexibility in how you draft these items, and then you are looking to place the tiles and the animals with two things in mind:
- Each animal will have a special way that it scores, based on its particular scoring card. (Each animal comes with different scoring cards to increase replayability.) You might have solitary hawks (i.e., they dont want to be next to other hawks) and you might be making runs of fish (i.e., you want to make a long, uninterrupted string of fish across your tableau).
- Each of your habitat types will score once, based on how big your biggest cluster of each type is.
And, again... thats it. Each turn, take a habitat tile and an animal token, place them in your tableau, and try to maximize the points from each animal type while ideally grouping together your habitat types for extra scoring.
The solo mode
Some final thoughts
Anyway, the material is nice and the images are sympathetic.  And in the sets of animals you make, the theme comes shining through thinly. Bears in pairs, salmon meander, buzzards soar lonely above the landscape.  If you want to see it, the theme is there.
Rules and age
There is something new waiting for you every turn, there is always something useful to take and you can always make a multiple choice.  This applies to all players, which leads to an exciting final score.  An endcount that is made extra exciting by the use of intermediate scores on the scoreblock.
But you might want to know that "fizzle" in United States commonly means
1. To make a hissing or sputtering sound.
2. To fail or end weakly, especially after a hopeful beginning.
But you might want to know that "fizzle" in United States commonly means
1. To make a hissing or sputtering sound.
2. To fail or end weakly, especially after a hopeful beginning.
Hi Ralph, thanks! I thought for years that fizzing or to fizz meant something like "bubbling" or "sparkling" water, like in waterfalls? But it means the same as fizzle? The latter is definitely not what I mean to say in the title.
I will look after it and edit. Thanks.
"I've travelled there once and indeed the bears just walk across your camp site."
I do not think fiz and fizzle mean the same thing.
Fizzle is associated with "to fizzle out" i.e.to fizz less and less until it is gone, so tends to have a negative impact these days. Older usage of the word was more associated with fizzing bit it's not used that way any more. It's generally an "old fashioned" word so people think of the expression as opposed to the meaning it used to have.
"I've travelled there once and indeed the bears just walk across your camp site."
The bears really did happen, lucky for us we were just brushing our teeth in one of those camping site bathrooms. And no kids around back then. In a cold spring/summer they (usually black bears btw) can go downhill because of the lack of food in the mountains. There were bears galore that summer.
Solo Changes: The rightmost tile and right most animal token are removed at the end of each turn from the drafting pool.
(1 Is easiest 10 is hardest)
Difficulty to Learn: 2 / 10
Difficulty to Master: 6 / 10
Set up Time: 5 Minutes
Teardown Time: 5 Minutes
You also score points based on the size of your habitats. Each tile has 1-2 habitat types. Forest, Prairie, Marshland, River, and Mountain. You want to work to both create the largest habitats of each type while also satisfying your animal score requirements. Its that combination of things that really gets ya thinking and you have to strategize a bit especially as a solo player. You know that no matter what tiles you take, the rightmost one after you take a tile will go away. Do you need the second tile from the right, but not this moment? Well then you cant take the rightmost tile or you lose it.
It only takes up to 4 players.
Oh! You are correct my apologies I had thought that because there was 5 starter tiles that it had 5 players. My mistake! I shall correct that
It was the role I was born to fulfill!
My gosh you are right! I Will fix that in my post, thank you for pointing that out! I lived in Arizona for a while so I guess my brain just though "Yellow looks like sand = desert"
What does the Fox say?
Final Score: 9/10
Add a Roll
Ttulo: Initial impression of Cascadia (with kids!)
Initial impression: Average
For an idea of what my kid likes even though I don't always get it right, visit
The geographic region of North America known as Cascadia encompasses some (or all) of 8 US states (Northern California and Nevada, Northwestern Wyoming, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Washington, and Alaska) as well as the Canadian province British Columbia and Yukon territory. Stretching for more than 2,500 miles and encompassing nearly 1.4 million square miles, it contains over 75 distinct ecoregions with an astonishing number of plants, animals, and habitats. Its also stunningly beautiful.
Setting up Cascadia
Place all of the wildlife tokens into the bag and mix well. Then deal out 4 face up habitat tiles and pair each of them with a face up wildlife token. Set the nature tokens to the side (more on that later). Finally, select the A, B, or C wildlife cards and place them to the side where all players can see them. When youre done, your setup should look something like this.
A Turn in Cascadia
The only rules for habitat tile placement is that your new tile may not be placed on top of another habitat tile and must be placed against the face of an existing tile. Matching the geography of the placed tile isnt a rule, but while geography doesnt matter for placement it will have an impact on your scoring, as well as where youre able to place your wildlife tokens.
After your habitat tile has been placed, youll move on to placing your wildlife tokens. Placement rules for animals also have only two rules: a wildlife token can only be placed on top of a matching animal icon of an existing habitat tile and only one wildlife token can be placed on each habitat tile. Since youll get a large portion of your points from scoring animal cards, youll want to pay close attention to where the animals wind up.
In the rare case you cant place a wildlife token that you selected, its returned back to the bag.
Almost all of the habitat tiles in Cascada feature a mix of geography, but there are a handful of special habitat tiles called keystone tiles which showcase only a single type of habitat. When placing an animal onto this tile, players will earn a nature token which can be spent to split up the paired habitat tile and wildlife tokens during the selection process.
Scoring Points in Cascadia
There are 4 ways to score points in Cascadia:
 1 point for each remaining nature token
 1 point per tile in your largest group for each habitat type
 0-3 points for having the largest group of habitat type (point values vary by player count)
 Wildlife scoring cards (see below)
Habitat and nature token scoring is easy to understand, but lets have a look at some examples for the "A" wildlife cards.
 Elk score points for being in a straight line.
 Foxes score points for each unique animal type in the tiles surrounding them, even other foxes.
 Grizzlies score for each pair of bears, with no other bears on the surrounding tiles.
 Salmon score points for being in a run, but not necessarily a straight line. Runs cannot be next to each other.
 Hawks score an increasing number of points for each hawk that is next to no other hawk.
Final Thoughts on Cascadia
Since the tiles and tokens are drawn and assigned randomly youre never quite sure of the pairings that present themselves. But thats where the nature tokens come in, giving players a way to split up the tiles and tokens and select exactly the right set for your needs. But you still have to get a keystone tile and be able to place the right animal on it. But honestly thats a minor issue for me. I dont mind a bit of luck now and then, it keeps things fresh.
Designer: Randy Flynn
Artist: Beth Sobel
Release date: 2021
30  45 mins
Favouritefoe score: 9/10
*Gorgeous * Tile Laying * Spatial Puzzle * Solo Mode * Accessible * Versatile * Thematic *Easy to Learn * Scoring Objectives * Variable Set Up *
Im Sorry, Randy!
Playtime In The Pacific Northwest!
The accompanying Wildlife Token can be placed on any tile (new or existing) showing that animal. Only one Wildlife Token can be placed on each tile, and once it has settled there, theres no uprooting it to somewhere else!
In most cases, you must take the Habitat Tile and Wildlife Token below it as a pair. But, if you place an animal on a tile with a Nature Token on it (called a Keystone Tile), on a later turn, you can use that little bonus pinecone to either (a) pick and mix a pair that suits you better, or (b) remove the Wildlife Tokens and replace them before making your selection.
When youre done, the pool of tiles and tokens are replaced at random, and the next player takes their turn, choosing from the 4 pairs on offer. Note that if 4 Wildlife Tokens are all the same, this is known as overpopulation, and they are removed and replaced with 4 new randomly selected ones. It can also happen when there are 3 matching animals on offer. But in that case, it is the active players choice as to whether those 3 are replaced or not.
The goals are spatial, and seem in keeping with each of the animals represented. So, for example, salmon score higher the more you have in an adjacent run, and Elks like to be with their buddies so score better in groups. Theyre fussy though, and have to be in the precise positions shown on the card. Bears are less particular, but they do like a bit of social distancing between their sleuths!
The goals themselves are juicy point providers, but it is impossible to achieve them all and get the corridor bonuses in just 20 turns. On that basis, decisions have to be made. You have to choose what you are going to target, bearing(! in mind the luck of the Token and Tile draw. And then flip reverse your strategy when the wrong Habitats and Wildlife appear!
If that all seems a little overwhelming for you or someone in your group, dont worry. There are family and intermediate variants that narrow down the scoring objectives.
There is a slight variation in the scoring of corridors for solo mode  you have to have at least 7 matching, adjacent terrain tiles to get a 2 point bonus. But besides that, it is a standard BYOS affair.
Animal Achievements and Rule Restrictions!
Note: Achievements and Rule Restrictions arent intended for solo play, but I cant see why not (and, so long as you dont tell anyone, I do use them for added crunch sometimes!)
Okay, so the above would not the best strategy in the point scoring stakes, but playing Cascadia by myself is pure puzzly joy. Its not flashy. It doesnt take an age to set up. Theres no complicated AI to operate. It is just me, a stack of hex tiles, a bag of tokens, and 5 cards. 20 turns to make something satisfyingly synergistic. And my brain likes it. No, my brain LOVES it.
Multiplayer has a similar chilled vibe. But, like the Hawk, the potential for hate drafting flies not too far over our heads. Probably because ShadowMeepleMedia and I cant help ourselves when opportunity strikes. But in truth, Cascadia never gets to the same level of claws-out tile taking that Calico can. In Calico, I know that ShadowMeeple Media will get me on every objective, so getting in his way is a legitimate strategy. Likewise, he doesnt find the spatial challenge difficult, so uses his time to mess with me (just because he can  see what I have to deal with??!! Hahah). But in Cascadia, we are each so focussed on making wonderful landscapes that any hex snatching is more coincidence than contrived.
Add a Roll
We are slowing playing through the Scenarios as solo competitions, latest here: Cascadia Solo Competition, Month 5 (February 2022)
If you want to join. Or just look at other scores.
Lone Bear? You won't score many points for that!
And with that said, back to nature! I didn't like Cascadia very much for two main reasons:
2. Scoring trade-offs were too simplistic
In Cascadia, having so many different scoring objectives and so many different opportunities to score any scoring objective it never felt like I was making much of a trade-off. If I decide to take that fox tile now or not, it won't matter because it'll likely come back later and if it doesn't the bear and wetlands tile offers me a similar amount of points.
2. Scoring trade-offs were too simplistic
"Simplistic scoring? Have you not seen those high-level fancy shmancy Red-Tailed Hawk cards and those wriggly Chinook Salmon? You are either a genius or doing it wrong! Scoring all the animals well is hard! Let alone with the habitat tiles!" I hear someone think and while I'd like to think I'm a genius, I barely know what Chinook Salmon is, I call all pink fish salmon... I think my problem with the scoring is that I don't feel like there are enough levels in the interaction between the different scoring mechanisms.
I would also argue that the habitat scoring is so easy that it barely interacts with the animal scoring. The fact that Cascadia tiles either fully contain a habitat or contain two separate habitats split in the middle means that there is a minimum of three options of how I can connect any habitat to a single side of any other tile of the same habitat. If both tiles are half habitat tiles that is 9 possible ways to connect the habitats, if one is a full tile and the other a half tile that is 18 possible ways to connect a habitat and if they both are full tiles then it is 36 possible ways to connect. That's a lot of options, so much so that it is almost guaranteed that you can connect the habitat tile and leave an opening to connect more.
EDIT: Grammar + formatting. Boy do I need to check my typos before posting...
Cooper Island  would be high on restrictiveness. You might like it.
I feel exactly the same. Now I'm not a big tile laying fan to begin with, but I totally fell in love with Calico and thought if that was great, Cascadia would fit right in there.
But I got the same "problem" as you with Cascadia: It is too open, you can place your tiles wherever you want and will always find a way to score points. And in addition you can use the nature tokens to chose any combination of tile and animal to draw.
In Calico this is completely different and you need to think carefully where to place every tile to have a chance to score anything. And even then it is very easy to mess up because the scoring conditions (and the luck of the draw) can be really mean. I love it ^^
Although, if you are into solo gaming, you might give the later solo Scenarios a chance. They seem to be getting pretty hard to complete later on and it seems, there you really need to be careful where you place which tiles and animals.
Cooper Island  would be high on restrictiveness. You might like it.
ooooo! Looks cool! thanks for the recommendation.
I feel exactly the same. Now I'm not a big tile laying fan to begin with, but I totally fell in love with Calico and thought if that was great, Cascadia would fit right in there.
But I got the same "problem" as you with Cascadia: It is too open, you can place your tiles wherever you want and will always find a way to score points. And in addition you can use the nature tokens to chose any combination of tile and animal to draw.
In Calico this is completely different and you need to think carefully where to place every tile to have a chance to score anything. And even then it is very easy to mess up because the scoring conditions (and the luck of the draw) can be really mean. I love it ^^
Although, if you are into solo gaming, you might give the later solo Scenarios a chance. They seem to be getting pretty hard to complete later on and it seems, there you really need to be careful where you place which tiles and animals.
The grid is life. That's why I've gone with Calico, am skipping Cascadia (until I inevitably change my mind), and look forward to Verdant .
Thanks for the kind words! I've had my eye on that one. Bought roll player instead but am super interested in the new legacy version coming out!
Rummikub is better than Cascadia though, right?
I'm waiting for Verdant, as well.
2. Scoring trade-offs were too simplistic...
...Cascadia feels a bit disjointed. I can work on some scoring here and some scoring there but they don't really affect each other unless they are directly next to each other...
...I would also argue that the habitat scoring is so easy that it barely interacts with the animal scoring...
I'm not pushing back against your opinion (as everyone is entitled to one), but just wanted to offer a counterpoint for you and/or anyone who might be deciding whether or not to try Cascadia:
All that to say, I think that much of the tension/scoring-tradeoff is probably lost in solo play.
The habitat scoring method encourages you to do that (match the habitats of all touching edges) in order to extend multiple habitats on the same play. But doesn't require it.
If you require matching habitats on every edge, then there will be many times when you will interfere with meeting the wildlife goals. Score would be much lower.
The current rules require you to make this trade-off all of the time... Can i extend habitats and at the same time allow me to have a place to have a space on a future turn to meet a wildlife goal?
Plays: 4 at player counts: 1 - 4