One Board Family
Become a Patron
Become a Patron
One Board Day
One Board Family
Become a Patron
August 15, 2022
As Ive mentioned
in the past
Living Off the Land
But hey, before we get started, if youre looking for a lot of theme here, youre gonna be sad. You should get over that right now.
Wild for Wildlife
Oh, and there are some animals, too. Five to be exact. These are featured on small circular tokens that you place on your land tokens.
Whenever you grab a new land token, youll also take the animal token thats next to it. You can only place certain animals on your land tokens, so youll have to carefully decide which land tile and animal token set youre taking each turn so that youve got a place for everything.
It Seems So Simple
But its the decision-making within the simplicity where
is said to shine. When you get a new tile, you have to constantly balance between whether or not you want to make a terrain area larger, or set up your animal tiles to get more points. Sometimes you can do both, and yay, hooray! But other times you cant, and you will be sad.
But youve also got to consider the animal token that comes with your new terrain token. Do you have a place to put it? There will be four open places at any one time, so youll usually have plenty of options. But what if you dont? Are you willing to give up placing an animal token so that you can have the right land tile?
So in the end, the big question is is
worth all the hype?
Lords of Waterdeep
. If given the choice, I would easily pick to play those two titles over
. And while I dont see myself ever letting go of my copy of
, I think I could be easily convinced to trade away or sell
in a year or two.
So in the end, sure, its good and its fun. But if youve heard the hype and think youve got to get your own hands on a copy, I would temper your expectations a bit before opening the box.
You can purchase a copy of
today.
Incredibly simple rules that take less than 5 minutes
Doesnt live up to the hype
new follow-up comments
new replies to my comments
View all comments
1 year ago
You might also like
Stay a while and find more board gaming goodness.
Become a Patron
 2025 - One Board Family
WordPress Theme  by